
4.0 out of 5 stars Beautiful snapshot of an incredible event during a difficult time in NYC, April 3, 2013
By Richard Bon (Philadelphia, PA) - See all my reviews
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
As someone originally from NYC, I'm shocked and a bit embarrassed that I'd never heard of the famous 1974 Philippe Petit walk between the unfinished World Trade Center towers before reading this book. The event itself, around which the action of the book indirectly revolves, fascinated me as I read, and for this I'm indebted to Colum McCann.

I thoroughly enjoyed the story and McCann's depiction of The Big Apple during a difficult time in its history. The characters were interesting and engaging and the way in which most of them were connected, with and without regard to the Petit walk, came together very naturally and effectively.

I would've given this book 5 stars if not for two small complaints:

1) Two of the middle chapters, in my opinion, could've been omitted. One follows a teenage photographer as he attempts to time shots of underground graffiti while riding the subway, the other a group of west coast kids who learn of Petit's walk when they randomly call pay phones near the WTC. I think McCann included the former to further show what life was like at the time for low income NYC teens, and the latter to highlight the lack of technology at the time, the relative slowness with which information spread compared to today's world? But I think the book would've been better without these chapters, cleaner, because these characters stood alone, whereas the others were connected somehow in addition to everyone's connection with Petit's walk.

2) Perhaps if I were reading this book for the first time in, say, 2025, I would like the part where McCann fast forwards to 2006. But reading it in 2011 like I did, I found myself wishing he'd just left all of the action in 1974.

A final note: reading McCann's description of the Petit walk itself, I felt as if I were standing on the edge of one of the towers myself, afraid I might fall. Masterful is the word that comes to mind when I think of the way those parts are written.