
1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 For Starters, This Isn't A Novel, August 24, 2010
By 
Not Usually Hard To Please - See all my reviews

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
I know everyone has said that, but it's something that bears repeating. That's not a criticism of the book. It's actually terrific as a series on inter-connected short stories, but the perception that I got when I had first heard of the book was that it was a novel, and that made the reality a little jarring.

Just to get this off my chest: Just because Colum McCann is Irish doesn't automatically mean he needs to be compared with James Joyce. If there was another writer that I thought the story invoked, personally, it seemed more like Virginia Woolf.

In any case, the absolute best part of the book, and indeed the reason I would recommend it, is McCann's beautiful lyrical style of writing. Since each separate story is told by a different character, and since each character has a slightly different perception of the same event, McCann does a wonderful job of making sure that each story has its own voice. Without wishing to strain a metaphor, this seems akin to walking a tightrope; it looks easy, but go ahead and try it yourself.

I wholeheartedly thought his decision to leave Philippe Petit mostly an enigma (I don't even think he's ever even named) was correct. Petit's wire-walk is the MacGuffin around which the stories pivot. It's not the story itself. I'm not positive, but I wonder if the book as a whole wouldn't have been stronger if the story about Petit's preparation for the walk (which I gather is wholly an invention of the author) had been omitted. That story did a reasonable enough job of keeping Petit mysterious, but I do think it was perhaps unnecessary.

Now for the criticism:

While each individual story is well-written and pitch-perfect in its style, the transitions between them can be jarring. A lot of other reviews have specifically mentioned the story about the computer hackers as being out-of-place. For me, it was the highlight of the book, and the staccato, machine-gun delivery was one of the best pairing of character and style of the books. Having said that, it is so dissimilar all of the other stories, I can see why it jumps out at people, especially since it's located toward the middle of the book.

Finally, the last story, with its jump to present day, with the required references to Iraq, Afghanistan, 9/11, and Katrina was completely unnecessary. I think I understand the intent, to tie everything together in one final vignette, but it just didn't work.

