4 of 5 people found the following review helpful
3.0 out of 5 stars
 It Spins, It Sputters, It Stops Just Short of Great, March 4, 2012
By Michele Kingery
 This review is from: Let the Great World Spin  Paperback
"The watchers below pulled in their breath all at once. The air felt suddenly shared. The man above was a word they seemed to know, though they had not heard it before." (p. 7)

The watchers in Colum McCann's "Let the Great World Spin" are New Yorkers, heads turned heavenward, eyes fixed on Philippe Petit as he eases out onto a wire strung between the twin towers of the World Trade Center. Crazy man? Lunatic? Jokester? Will he jump? Or fall? No one knows. And as everyone wonders, the city holds its collective breath, watches and waits.

It is the mid 1970s. The Twin Towers are a marvel in themselves. Nearly a quarter of a mile high, they were the tallest buildings in the world from '71 to '73. No one would have guessed the fate that awaited thirty years down the road.

McCann uses Petit's high wire act as the thread that weaves through this collection of linked stories. Petit remains, simply, an unnamed aerialist so dedicated to his exquisite art form that he needs little else to thrive. His grace and control are balletic. His body is a supple, sinewy extension of his beautiful imagination. He is an enigmatic and fascinating character.

McCann spends far too little time on Petit and far too much time on characters like Corrigan and his narrator brother, Ciaran, two young Irishman trying to make a difference to the down and outers who work the streets of New York and live off them as well. Corrigan's martyrdom is tiresome. Ciaran seems to be an appendage, there to narrate and nothing more. At some point, I began to feel bogged down by their shared history.

There are other players; a mother who grieves for the son killed in Viet Nam, her husband, the judge who gets the case involving the wire walker, Tillie, a suicidal hooker who worked the streets with her seventeen year-old-daughter, a group of California computer geeks patched into a payphone on the street below the towers, and in 2006, Tillie's granddaughter Jaslyn, who finds a photo of the man on the tightrope and reflects on what things might have been like decades before.

As much as I wanted to, I never fully dropped into the "Great World" of this story. Some of the stories spin. Others sputter. Several tie together. A few characters come on stage briefly, then disappear; the computer geeks, the graffiti photographer, feeling more like asides that could have been edited out. McCann fully inhabits his characters, giving each a distinctive voice. I especially enjoyed Tillie's tragic voice and Jude Soderberg's unsentimental view of the justice system and the people, losers and lovers and everyone in between, who pass through its endlessly revolving door. McCann transitions smoothly between first and third person, though some passages get a little sing-songy with the word play and are awkward and over-stylized. The ending feels tacked on. The novel works well as a whole, though I never stopped feeling these were short-stories. Not a bad thing, just something I was conscious of.
