
1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 A Great Story, but the Spinning Runs Down Midway, June 17, 2010
By 
C. P. Jackson (Fairfax) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
McCann doesn't tell the same story twice. Neither does he use a recognizable formula. What is recognizable to familiar readers is the brilliant prose he uses to pull you in. Like his earlier books, he really knows how to set the scene. Here in near-bankrupt 1970s NYC, he writes on-point descriptions of everyone and everything, from the uniformed Park Avenue doorman to the decaying South Bronx with stops in the Village. He brings together characters in spite of - really because of - their differing misfortunes and sea-separated cultures. Thus, the opening chapters, narrated by one of the Brothers Corrigan, promises to be McCann's best work. Perhaps because I read this book as chapters rather than related short stories, for me, it didn't fulfill the promise. There are too many people, too many forced connections. By the end, it wound down and fell over.

The best developed parts are told by one of the Corrigans. Neither brother's first name is revealed until much later. The narrator calls the other by their last name. His reason is explained so simply, and defines the brother so well, that I re-read the line. Throughout the book, the dialogue is crisp and natural. With some exceptions, McCann doesn't encase the dialogue in quotation marks. His dashes, which separate the speakers, are especially effective in a multi-party conversation. Usually when a storyline is left unfinished, a reasonable conclusion is picked up later by another character. But, too often this doesn't happen: like with the computer hackers and the photographer, people drop out of sight never to be heard from again. Were these characters inserted just to show a broader expanse of the New York populace? I was especially disappointed in how stereotypes were worked. This writer can script familiar stereotypes (read `Zoli') and smash them so hard that the reader is forced to examine his own prejudgement of the stranger. He failed to do that here, especially with Gloria, the opera-lover with a Syracuse U degree. She came off as a caricature, stuck in the projects and an out-sized, flowered dress.

So, why the four stars? Every scene in which the Corrigans and Tillie appear pulsates with realism even though I don't know anyone like them. And, walking, dancing a tightrope between the Towers is an inventive allegorical element.
