1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
2.0 out of 5 stars
 Needs more editing!, August 28, 2010
By 
Tanvi Buch "tanvibuch" (Los Altos, CA, USA) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Overall, this was a very tediously detailed book. The writing was choppy and abrupt. The audio version was far easier to listen to than it was to read this book, and I tried and put down the book many times. As a concept, bringing together multiple lives under the skies of New York, and tying them all together in time with an event that is now history for New York - the tightrope walker between the then-newly built World Trade Center - is unique.
The book is divided into parts that have different protagonists. McCann has a wonderful, creative imagination and has clearly researched the lives of the various characters he has written about, but the writing is tedious and sometimes overly detailed to the point of dull. The first part [about Corrigan] and the second [about the prostitutes] were lengthy and rambling. The third part about the drugged couple who get into an accident made me sit up and take notice because suddenly the characters' lives overlapped and they became more a cause-and-effect of one another, rather than the apparently disparate lives they were leading. Tilly's chapter was wonderful - the highlight in the book, probably more so because I listened to the audio version of this book and the narration was superb. A couple of chapters and characters seemed to go nowhere, particularly the one about the graffiti photographer, and the computer hackers in Palo Alto. I felt for Adelita - that was another chapter I enjoyed. I did not connect with most of the characters - perhaps Tilly, Gloria and Adelita the most, Corrigan somewhat.
SPOILERS AHEAD...
There were certainly bright moments in the book. I loved how the tightrope walker connects all the characters in time - Tilly's fate only comes into stark attention in Soderberg's courtroom, but he is more interested in the tightrope walker who has been just brought in. I loved how one character is brought to the foreground in Soderberg's mind, but it is the one we as the readers are less interested in, since we've come to know Tilly better. Also well done were the hints and suggestions of previous characters in the stories of later characters, without the author telling us who they are e.g. I thought the doorman in Claire's story, because he was Irish, was Ciaran [Corrigan's brother] since he had been contemplating different jobs in New York. Who it was was not revealed, but the memory jog was cleverly done, and I didn't mind not knowing. Elsewhere, the nameless lady who adopted Jazzlyn's girls reminded me of Gloria, without that revelation then. I also thought that the drugged artist who let his paintings wash in the rain was perhaps the subway tunnel graffiti guy, but that was not made clear, and it made the story of the graffiti guy all the more pointless. I appreciated the detailed description about the feeling of the tightrope walker - not so much as the onlookers observing him - but his own feelings, his sense of the wind, the moisture in his eyes, his own balancing act with his body. That was lovely writing.
It is a sad book overall, and the ending could have been less abrupt.