2 of 3 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Wonderfully spun, May 2, 2011
By Richard Hunt(Cincinnati OH) 
   
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin Paperback

A rollicking, expansive, generous and kind-hearted novel. I was never an earnest enough English student to read any Dickens that wasn't assigned, but Colum McCann's fine, fine work reminded me most of those I did enjoy.

At the top of the heap are the wonderful characters: distinctive, honest, flawed, emotional and true. Zigging from the tightrope walker who crossed via cable 110 stories in the air between the two World Trade Center towers thirty years ago, then zagging to a humble Irish covert priest working with ladies of the street in the Bronx, he gathers a Park Avenue socialite into a group of grieving moms for their sons who lost their lives in the jungles of Vietnam War, and a half dozen others into the bountiful mix.

As Colum reveals ourselves in the mirrors of those who people the pages, he does so kindly...which is a balancing act as the acts of contrition collide with humans' baser appetites, i.e., for sex, drugs, booze, celebrity or money. But love does win out in the end, although its mettle is tested virtually every step.

There isn't any other book I've read in the last decade, if not the last two or three, that so masterfully captures social strata with a human wink and other embellishments of folly and fondness. And when the last page is turned, and the reader reflects on the whole, more and more facets of our errant beliefs pop up. In the face of humble heroes and the brutally honest self-assessment of hookers (although their actions often tumble down like their drawers), after reading this slice of life in NYC, one feels oddly redeemed.

The genius touch was using the tightrope walker as the character that connects all the other stories together. He briefly opens each section and also acts as the common thread (no pun intended) in tying the characters together. Befitting his training, he lightly and exquisitely creates a fleeting, haunting, perilous but perfectly-in-control image against the sky. Also, with a whisper, he foreshadows briefly the actions that seized the world's attention at the same spot three decades later. A brilliant metaphoric lightning rod - thank goodness, although he considers what that might all mean, not a literal one.

It's not a fast read, but at the same time, not a laborious endeavor either. I was more than willing to slow down and let the story tick along because of Colum's wonderful wordsmithing. I wish I could read it all again for the first time.