2 of 5 people found the following review helpful
3.0 out of 5 stars
 Disjointed, June 22, 2011
By cooley peninsula (Ireland) - 
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin PaperBACK
The theme of this novel is a high wire walk between the two tallest WTC towers in 1974. Between well-researched descriptions of the walker's preparation and the walk itself there are stories about various fictional characters from the same time. The author's own tale of arriving from Ireland and living in New York in the early 70s also forms a part.

What I found reading this was that the narrative didn't seem believable. They're fictional characters of course, but I didn't find they were representative in that too many were prostitutes or criminals. It's a really negative image that's depicted of that society. Also, the way the author arrives at the airport and drives to the Bronx and almost immediately becomes a confidante of prostitutes just isn't credible. He has all the acculturated language too: speaking about housing projects, hookers and switchblades on his first day. He's a ready-made New Yorker without any learning time in his new society. I didn't find this convincing and skipped a lot of pages.

The author has a poetic turn of phrase which can be interesting and thought-provoking but is a bit trying when overdone. His description of the walker's preparation is very effective though. He really captures the walker's mental outlook which involves finding his centre and keeping himself in balance by moving various muscles. At one point he has a wire strung over deep snow, sees a coyote watching him, falls in the snow and struggles to escape, all the time imagining thawing out in the spring for the same coyote to eat him. This is very imaginative writing.

This book has won a lot of awards. But my verdict is that he tries too hard and the story doesn't hold together. I never really understood the connection between the lives of the fictional characters and the high wire walk. Read it and wonder what it takes to win big writing awards, but don't expect too much.

I will be checking out 'To reach the clouds', an intimate account of Petit's 1974 walk, cited in an author note here. There's an interesting story in this somewhere.

