2 of 3 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Let the Great Book Absorb You, January 25, 2010
By 
Richard A. Mitchell "Rick Mitchell" (candia, new hampshire United States) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(TOP 1000 REVIEWER)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Simply put, this is a great book.

In 1974, Petit tight-walked across the chasm between the towers of the World Trade Center. He excited the imagination of the normally uber cynical New Yorkers. That has been the subject of its own books. Here, Mr. McCann uses that as the fulcrum for the story of several New Yorkers' lives. All are tangentially connected, but it is the individual stories that bind this book made up of chapters of varying length each devoted to a different character. The characters portrayed are as diverse as the city's population.

The book starts with a rather long biography of two Irish brothers who emigrate to NY. One is the story-teller, the other a monk of some questionable order who befriends the whores of the Bronx. The characters spin from there. There are chapters devoted to a whore, a judge, a mother of a son who died in Viet Nam, Petit himself (although never named), another mother of dead vets, a teenage photographer and a child of a prostitute. Each character study is unique unto itself, yet McCann does just enough to connect them.

There is another aspect of this book that is remarkable. Mr. McCann really captures the NYC of 1974 - the crime, filth and cynicism, while Park Avenue remained separate and apart.

No one does unhappiness like a good Irish writer, and Mr. McCann is a good, if not excellent, Irish writer. The reader has to look hard to find glimmers of hope and rejuvenation. They are there, but buried deep in the lives of these characters who all have their personal burdens and demons. Above it all, literally and figuratively, is Petit and his feat.

These characters will linger for a very long time in the memories of the readers of this book. Although it started slowly, by the end of the book I was wishing it would never end.
