3.0 out of 5 stars Tendentiousness through a rosy lens, May 13, 2014
By John S. Verlenden - See all my reviews
Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Kindle Edition)
I understand why McCann wins awards. Like a versatile boxer, he shows you plenty of moves -- short, choppy phrase-sentences pop-pop-pop, then the long, looping overhand, with plenty of ring-dancing in-between. However, it may be the ring-dancing that wears me out. Like the Washington Post reviewer, I find the backstories of almost all the characters besides Corrigan & brother to go on too long. It seemed that McCann was having to find his characters via free writing, but his editor didn't step in to tell him the reader wouldn't require as much. Just get the story going. And what of the story? Some segments, such as Fernando's photographing, analyzing, and deifying subway art and artists, are almost plotless. It's a novel-length workout on the premises of Baudelaire's correspondences. In the end, you get the same message that the great, gray bard gave to us in 'Leaves of Grass.' No one story holds up to scrutiny here. If the reader knows nothing of these urban realities or the Cheever-Updyke looks into the interior world of a Yale-educated, New York City judge, then fine. The novel illuminates. In the end, though, for experienced literary readers, the gold that's flecked throughout the book ends up not quite measuring a troy ounce. Still, you read from fleck to fleck and hope to find those pages when they form a seam, no matter how small. It must be tricky to write such a novel based around real events. Who hasn't seen 'Man on a Wire?' No writerly description of that event's inside, which McCann gamely attempts, can take the place of what a viewer reaps ten times over when watching that documentary. At this point, having now won the Man Booker 2013 for 'Transatlantic,' a novel that garnered more poor reviews, at least stateside, than 'Spin' did, McCann would do well to consider some new structural concepts. Perhaps go deeper within a limited number of characters. Can he do it, is the question. Doctorow did so after 'Ragtime,' still the big daddy in this type of novel. Indeed, reading 'Spin,' with all the summery warm wind blowing through it, has set me up for a re-read (and re-evaluation) of Doctorow's big seller. Maybe, back then, I was looking for the things that many of McCann's fans are finding now in 'Spin.' [Proviso in next paragraph]

I have to confess I was living in New York shortly after Petit's walk and worked in experimental theater while living in the quite dangerous Lower East Side. McCann elevates New York's grit -- especially the Bronx at that time -- in a way that comes close to offending. Corrigan's bruises and cuts from being mugged over and over (or basically so) run off of his hyper-spiritualized duck wings in ways that a few of my friends (who ended up leaving New York) could speak to. After two years I left without incident. But they occurred all around me. I'd never seen a murder victim until I lived in the LES. It isn't pretty and the image doesn't float off to join a celestial piece of lacework floating in the rosy mist of times-recollected. It's more Weegie than Whitman.