23 of 27 people found the following review helpful
3.0 out of 5 stars
 Rather stilted "literary" writing that ultimately isn't, August 6, 2009
By 
JackOfMostTrades "Jack" (Washington, DC) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
Perhaps if I hadn't read and heard about this book via the various media outlets, including listening to an interview with the author, I wouldn't have been let down as much as I was. However, I was. I believe the author has a sincere agenda and writes from the heart, but his mastery of English prose unfortunately does not seem up to the ambitious ideas and structure of the book. The book's theme--at least from my perspective--is wonderful. It's too bad the writing weren't any better. Specifically, McCann's style seems to be just a bit 'off.' He almost gets 'le mot juste,' but it just isn't enough. He almost gets New York dialogue down--whether it's of the South Bronx variety or the 5th Avenue 'friends of Central Park' style of discourse. But the writing seems too studied, as though he were given a writing assignment and hasn't done a re-write yet. I lived in NYC for a long time, and was there on the day of the famous 'skywalk', but New York just isn't like that and wasn't like that. If you compare the skill of Richard Price or George Pelacanos for dialogue writing, you will immediately see the difference between getting urban dialogue right and not. Additionally, the novel suffers from too much exposition/inner thought process dialogue--running monologues that comment on the action of the characters by the characters themselves. This is fine if it works, but it just seems to get in the way. For example, we learn a lot about the self-consciousness of a society woman when her support group--made up of working class women--when they come to her apartment for a meeting. It's the usual, 'oh I hope they don't think I'm stuck up, etc...' but really, it's quite obvious from the situation.The action and dialogue should be enough to convey this, but McCann seems afraid the reader won't get it. This was Hemingway's strength. He made the reader get the point by showing the characters in action. It seems McCann has to broadcast it. This really isn't a literary novel. Not anymore than episodes of Law & Order are cinematic masterpieces. And the cop show doesn't make an implicit claim to be what it's not. But if you do like shows like Law & Order, you will probably like this book.

Now the theme--at least the way I read it--is terrific. In a way the story is an attempt to temper history by presenting lives surrounding a famous moment in history that involved the Twin Towers. Here, the act is a celebration of life, the human spirit, the desire to transcend the body and let the soul fly. This is basically the opposite of the associations we have -- and rightfully so -- of that other event that involved the Twin Towers. If only the writer had had more skill, it might have served this noble purpose. Given its imperfections, however, I think the writer would have been better served by making this salve of language into an extended essay, because that's where exposition is better suited. Now before you think I'm a blue meany or miscreant, read or re-read the review of Publisher's Weekly on the home page of this book. It is a positive review, but at the end, note the following:

"McCann's dogged, DeLillo-like ambition to show American magic and dread sometimes comes unfocused--John Corrigan in particular never seems real--but he succeeds in giving us a high-wire performance of style and heart. (June)"

The only difference in that assessment and mine is that to me it's not just John Corrigan (hip-Catholic priest-brother of narrator character) is unfocused and never seems real; pretty much all the characters do.
