0 of 1 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 When there are shadows look for the light., April 13, 2011
By Laurie Holden
(Phoenix, AZ) - 
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin  Paperback

How do you eulogize the World Trade Center towers without the overpowering connotations of 9/11 drowning everything else that may be said? For who - at least in New York City - doesn't have particular memories or personally know someone who either died there or was one of its lucky survivors?

Yet they remain such a icon to that day of horror. They deserve to have better times re-associated with them. Author Colum McCann thought so too, and set about writing a masterpiece with a dozen voices and a cross-section of people of New York City when those towering skyscrapers were quietly providing visitors and office workers an overview to the city's angst and bustle below.

McCann uses the unexpected and thrilling tightrope walk of Philippe Petit who on a summer's day in 1974 walked, ran, and did acrobatics for a generous amount of time while spectators watched breathlessly below and policemen did - what could they do? watched and cajoled him to come in from the towers' windows on both sides. And he did - when he was ready.

The tightrope walk becomes a loosely connecting event for the vibrant characters in this novel, characters which include prostitutes, pimps, clergy, phone hackers, artists, judges, nurses and a support group of grieving mothers of fallen Vietnam vets, from Park Avenue to those that live along the Bronx' Deegan Expressway; grief is a central theme of this book - a couple main characters are killed in a vehicle crash early on - the collective grief a shadow for the looming end day of the towers. McCann shows us the city's un-pretty underside, the cynicism of over-worked and falling apart institutions and people who fight back and make do. At the same time he shows those making sacrifices and stretching their souls and learning that doing the right thing has its own merits.

This is about (as McCann said in the book's notes): "the ordinary people on the street, the ones who walked a tightrope just one inch off the ground."

As I was reading this remarkable book I couldn't help drawing parallels with another book about a different city, Dublin, centered around a single day decades ago - Joyce's Ulysses. Although McCann's Let the Great World Spin pivots around the tightrope day, it covers more time, and yet our author for me has caught his respective city's life - its vibrancy - with greater poignancy and clarity than the famed earlier author.

Life goes on. Even without the towers. We can re-joice.

