8 of 13 people found the following review helpful
1.0 out of 5 stars
 Dunk in Syrup, October 28, 2010
By 
Jona (NY United States) - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
I purchased this at my own risk, so there was nobody to blame but myself. And the author, maybe. And the prize, definitely, for misrepresenting the book, on top of keeping the library copies from being accessible any earlier. I ended up buying the book when the waiting lists for the library copies grew even longer due to the prize this novel received. Consequently the level of my scrutiny was automatically heightened. I could have given 2 stars if I read this in the library copy. Yet, I would have returned it before reading it cover to cover. The only reason I finished this was because, after all, I bought it. Darn it, the money was wasted so was the time.

I struggled to finish this book and it was frustrating and boring to death. I examined why; the writing did not live up to the vision the author initially might have to write the novel. So only his hypothesis was worthy while it did not have any substantial support. The meat--text-- was not too good to substantiate and deliver the very idea the hypothesis held; aren't we all tightrope walkers? This was also the notion that I had when I saw Man on Wire--the documentary film on Petit the actual figure who performed the tightrope walk in 74 in between skyscrapers of WTC. So when I happened to hear exactly the same idea from the author in his radio interview once, before the award was given to the novel, I was doomed to read this novel.

This book was filled with sentimentality that made it overall too syrupy and all was for the author's vanity and complacency. All the different characters' different voices and perspectives fell flat and as opposed to giving the reader a panoramic view as the author seemingly aimed in this project. I just saw cataloging here rather than anything like juxtaposing effect. Plotting diversity just by it--letting the priest befriend with the lowest-lifes possible-- is artistically and philosophically shallow and lazy. The penchant for objectification of sexworkers from the housing project was seriously unknown had it not been for glorification of the 'unconventional' priest's unlikely therefore valuable charity. Unfortunately, the depiction of 'girls' only read more patronizing than anything the author wished it to be. I believe he should have tried to construct the novel without the superficial employment of 'the others.' Focusing just Petit the tightrope walker and certain people whom he could earnestly invest his interest and passion in could have made the novel any better than what it really was. The text seriously needed more drastic editorial decision to reduce into even half of what's in print. What the author needed was that kind of courage, not looking into the Bronx to seek out the ultimate 'others' to show his ego off. Also, transplanting 9/11 situation into Vietnam era was such an easy solution that it only panned out implausible. Too overwritten on top of being too sentimental and superficial, I wonder if this was what other reviewers called 'pretentious.' Or complacency, I would rather put it to. The choppy and fragmented sentences did not surmount the ambitious structure, either.

Overall, I enjoyed the author's interview more than reading the book, let alone paying for it. But, hey, we are all tightrope walkers, and that I agree with, after all.