2 of 4 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 The remnants of loss with flashes of hope and happiness, January 25, 2011
By 
Laurence R. Bachmann "LRB" (New York) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Let The Great World Spin is a novel I have resisted reading. As a native New Yorker I was extremely hesitant to engage in even a tangential "9/11 novel". I didn't think anything could even remotely capture the actual experience, the loss and sorrow of that day's events. I couldn't have been more wrong. LTGWS is brilliant and evocative--a work that lingers in one's memory and emotions long after the final page.

Most wonderfully, the struggle and the sorrow is not focused upon the horror of the WTC destruction. It is Phillipe Petit's glorious tightrope walk, skip and hop from tower to tower, and the lives of a handful of people below that serve as metaphor of precarious existence. Others have, in wonderful detail pointed out what is marvelous about this book and I happily join in the chorus of praise. In addition though, I can add that having lived in NYC at the time McCann describes, the author (who couldn't possibly have been there) seems to recall it effortlessly, with pinpoint accuracy, brutal honesty and great heart.

All of the splendor and pretense, the grit and the degradation of a city that seemed to be teetering on the brink of a great collapse are described in powerful, steely prose. Those who have complained about McCann not following strict short story forms, or who upbraid him because he doesn't seem to like policemen, I am sorry to say can't see the forest for the trees. The various chapters are not short stories, and shouldn't be judges as such any more than one part of tryptich should be evaluated apart from the rest. As for the grouse about not liking cops, read the dedication of thanks. It's pretty clear the author is describing his characters feelings about police. Not his own.

As for those who say that the voices of some characters didn't ring true, I say, not so! Each of them--Claire and Jazzlyn, Tillie and Corr, Gloria and Sol--as different as can be--rang true and clear to me. I hope everyone will give this book a chance. I thought the New York described in Let The Great World Spin was gone for ever. Wrong again. It lives in McCann's chapters--beautiful, ugly and hopeful still.