
5.0 out of 5 stars Exceptionally wrought character driven story that soars as high as the Trade Tower walker, May 8, 2013
By Thomas Moody - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
In a work of fiction marvelously engulfing the 1974 World Trade Center Towers tightrope walk by Frenchman Philippe Petit, Colum McCann profoundly embraces the core of humanistic existence by linking several seemingly obscure characters into one very touching and literarily cohesive unit with "Let The Great World Spin." With great care and precision, McCann unpacks each character's story with such erudite grace and detail while centering each, in one way or another, around this historic event. I found myself again and again amazed at the fluidity of his writing and character depiction while following the plot to a rather forlorn conclusion.

We're introduced to New York City circa 1974, mainly in Manhattan and the Bronx, peopled with characters as diverse and interesting as a reluctant Irish monk and the throng of prostitutes that he attempts to protect. We also follow the story of a group of middle-age women whose main hostess has a rather disgruntled local judge for a husband. We meet hippie artists and telephone hackers and, my favorite, a subway rider whose main purpose is to search out the new "tags" and "blowups" in the subway terminals that the local graffiti artists have rendered.

All of these seemingly disparate people are connected to the tightrope walker and McCann's ability to dissect their lives, for all their banality, is only overshadowed by the strength of tone he presents. His writing is lyrical when required and profoundly "street" at others...an amazing contrast. And, antipathetic to most character driven narratives, this work comes with a strong plot that reaches a heartfelt and sad conclusion. There were episodes within this work that bore reading over and over...the writing and structure are that good.

The winner of the 2009 National Book Award, Colum McCann cements his literary reputation with this gem. This will certainly not be the last work of his that I will read.