4 of 6 people found the following review helpful
2.0 out of 5 stars
 Style? Check. Anything else? Nope., August 22, 2011
By J. Kopf
   
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin Paperback
Let me just say that there's no question that Colum McCann is a gifted writer. His use of sensory imagery rates up there with the best, and he should be given all the plaudits he can get for that. Sometimes, though, he certainly does stumble over a sentence or two in the book, and those moments do stand out. That isn't a huge problem, though. Many books have the occasional head-scratcher moment that seems out of step within context.
On the downside, this book reeks of pretension. Sure, it was released to the fanfare of the literary world, but I just can't seem to get into it. From the opening vignette placing special importance on Allen Ginsberg's Howl (a wonderful poem) throughout the rest of the book, McCann just seemed to reference things that were far beyond the scope of this book and are lightyears ahead in terms of quality.
Furthermore, I wish McCann would remove himself completely from the book, instead of popping up every now and then. It seems out of place with the book and does not contribute. In addition, the disjointed narrative seems, as a whole, annoying instead of edifying. I'm no stranger to multiple narratives; Thomas Pynchon is my favorite author, and there are many movies that I love which feature numerous excursions from the realm of traditional storytelling. However, in all of those examples, the multiple narratives provide depth to a wide cast of characters. Even in Coffee & Cigarettes, the Jim Jarmusch film, there is the unifying idea of the benefit of conversations held over the titular "meal", as well as the glorification of the average person, equating them with celebrities. In this book, the multiple narratives seem to exist only to add exponentially more platitudes and cliches about beauty in decay and life on a tightrope.
In summary, while this book may be gorgeously written, its in-your-face-here-I-am-LOOK-AT-ME symbolism and pretentious nature make it tinny, flat, and annoying. Colum McCann would do better to work on the depth of his narratives instead of flexing his prose muscles.

Also, for the record, anyone who likes this style of writing and would like a challenging and rewarding book should check out Thomas Pynchon's first novel, V. In my opinion, that novel is the perfect "New York novel" because it is the most like New York: sprawling, global, bizarre, and a testament to the profane and everyday man.