4 of 5 people found the following review helpful
3.0 out of 5 stars
 A Daring High Wire Act That, Unfortunately, Needs a Net, January 29, 2010
By 
A. Hennessey "Art" (Somerville, MA United States) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Colum Mccann's novel is lyrical staccato with nifty observations and interesting characters. Like some other "novels" today, Let the Great World Spin is more like a collection of short stories linked together by some type of device. McCann's tapestry takes us through the sights and smells of 1970's New York City. A collection of junkies, immigrants, judges, artists and prostitutes make their way through the garbage and danger of Manhattan, while, high above it all, a mysterious acrobat walks a tightrope between the World Trade Center Towers.

The stories intersect personally with two tragedies: the Vietnam conflict and an terrible car accident. The latter brings to mind the narrative fulcrum of the movie Crash. However, it is the living and breathing metaphor of the tightrope walker that gives the story its momentum and its real axis.

After a bravura opening that has almost the whole city stopping to observe a little speck walking out into the air between the towers, the novel suddenly shifts almost dizzily to Dublin - years earlier. Then, it fast forwards again and settles down into its gritty New York landscape and doesn't relent for a while. Indeed, McCann rubs our nose in the sights sounds and temperature of the tenements and their denizens with a kind of sadistic delight; things become very observational, and it is hard to get a read on what the characters want or desire. Here is where I felt the work stumbled.

This part of the book becomes a little bit of a slog. I put it down quite a bit and found I wouldn't pick it up for a while. I mention this only to assure readers that the novel does, in fact, pick up at around the half-way point. Every snapshot of the acrobat brings us closer and closer to him as the narrative and story lines begin to come together - the writer is back in command of his work again.

McCann employs a nice lyrical quality in some of the simple, sometimes sad, observations of his characters - some of whom do have that grating quality of over-characterization. (Hey, the prostitute knows poetry!) And in the end there is transcendent resonance between the artistry of the acrobat and way the love of human beings for one another can imbue moments with lasting significance.