
1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 A World Charged With Meaning, April 20, 2010
By 
J. A. Bell "she reads xyz" (Florida, USA) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin (Paperback)
In A Reader's Guide at the back of my copy, McCann says, "The thing that matters most to me are the words on the page, how they meet, how they touch." I thought his words met and touched in a very profound way, penetrating deeply, going far beneath the external, the superficial, or the obvious, defining a little world within a great world.

About the novel, McCann said, "I wanted it to be a Whitmanesque song of the city, with everything in there, high and low, rich and poor, black, white, and Hispanic. Hungry, exhausted, filthy, vivacious, everything this lovely city is. I wanted to catch some of that music and slap it down on the page so that even those who have never been to New York can be temporarily transported there." I thought he succeeded beautifully -- it's all in there (even young and old). I was transported back to New York, to that time and place. I was living it along with the characters.

He also said, "The question, as a writer, was how to find meaning at all when there was, in plain sight, a world charged with meaning. If everything meant something--even a child's simple question about burning--then how was it possible to create an alternative meaning, or more exactly a novel?" I felt like I knew these characters. I felt so much empathy for them.

An excerpt from page 123: "His most famous film, Antioch, was a portrait of an old building being demolished on the waterfront. Beautiful, patient shots of cranes and juggernauts and swinging headache balls caught on sixteen-millimeter. It anticipated much of the art that came behind it--light filtering in through smashed warehouse walls, window frames lying over puddles, new architectural spaces created by fracture."

This is a remarkable novel. I could read it again.
