1 of 2 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 Well Worth a Look, December 15, 2010
By 
Richard B. Schwartz (Columbia, Missouri USA) - See all my reviews
(TOP 500 REVIEWER)
    
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
McCann review

This winner of the National Book Award is worthy of our attention, both on its own merits and as an indication of the kind of book selected to receive such an award.

Set in 1974 the book recounts the experiences of a dozen or so figures. This is a time of pain and struggle, with Watergate, Vietnam and other events and issues dominating the news. Into this world steps Philippe Petit, a French wirewalker who stretches a line between the nearly-completed twin towers of the World Trade Center and walks back and forth, a quarter of a mile above the ground, without a net, for approximately 45 minutes. This is harrowing for more than the obvious reasons. Since the towers could sway approximately three feet in a high wind there remained the possibility of Petit being whipped off of the wire. The wire was stretched at considerable force (3 tons or so), so that if part of the wrapped wire came loose it could snap off his head or one of his limbs. Hence, the act was one of physical skill, courage, foolhardiness and grand performance art.

Petit's historic act is noticed by the fictional characters in the book. It serves as a point of learning, hope, amusement and surprise. It also underlines the ways in which individuals live their circumscribed lives, blind to what is around them until something stark and amazing impinges on their experience.

The lives of McCann's characters (hookers, a liberation-theology street priest, mothers who have lost sons in Vietnam . . . ) are not unrelievedly bleak, but neither are they particularly uplifting or encouraging. We are offered slight glimmers of hope in a world that weighs heavily on its occupants. It is, in short, a very `Irish' and very `New York' book. It's Joyce without the learning, the dark humor and the raw energy.

It is a very well-written book, with deep awareness of the culture of 1974 and a cast of interesting characters, all of whom hold our attention, but none of whom are likely to enjoy literary immortality.

Some readers have found it slow. It is somewhat slow at the beginning. The reader must begin with the awareness that s/he will have to persevere. It picks up the pace in succeeding acts and ends on a nice note. Part of its narrative logic concerns its thematic point that our lives are ultimately intertwined.

Critics and commentators are always telling writers `how they would have done it' or `what they would have preferred'. I would have preferred a book about Petit himself, who is far and away the most interesting character in the book. I could imagine a historical novel by a writer such as the Glen David Gold of CARTER BEATS THE DEVIL giving an interesting take on Petit, whose challenges are here represented with dizzying effectiveness but for a very brief time.

While LET THE GREAT WORLD SPIN is a fine book, I can't imagine wanting to read it twice, though I might like to read a book that focused on one of its characters in greater depth and at greater length. It is a somber, momentarily hopeful statement, asserting that `this is the way the world is'. And so it is, to some.