1 of 2 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 A Lovely, Lovely Book, May 6, 2011
By Postscript
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin Paperback
I had seen The Great World Spin pop up in just about every book store and on a number of "great books" lists for about a year, so when I found it cheap, I picked it up. Of course, I didn't actually read it for about six months, but after finishing it, I wish I had gotten to it sooner. I really, really liked this book. It so well-written - the style is beautiful, I connected with the characters, and the delicate weaving of all the plot lines was perfect. It was just a lovely book.

The unifying event in Let the Great World Spin is a fictionalization of Philippe Petit's infamous tightrope walk between the World Trade Towers in the 1970's. "Unifying" might not be completely accurate - Petit's tightrope walk is a tool used to introduce a variety of the characters, but it's not Petit or his act that brings them all together. On that day, most of them just happen to cross paths, but as the city and life move on from Petit's tightrope walk, all of the characters' stories start to come together naturally anyways.

The book really begins as a series of short stories. Each chapter focuses on a different character and is told in that character's voice. At first, each chapter doesn't seem to have much to do with the next, however, as you move through the book, the stories and characters start to come together and you start to see how people who really shouldn't have anything to do with each other end up being tied to each other by very random acts.

As I got deeper and deeper into Let the Great World Spin, Petit and his tightrope dropped to the background - he was interesting, but was really just a sideshow to each of the characters and stories. I couldn't get enough of the characters McCann crafted, which is a little strange to say because most, if not all, of them do not have easy or happy stories. The tone of this book is melancholy, but it is real and eventually satisfying. Despite being centered around a pretty unbelievable event, the stories and characters are believable and very relatable. There's a lot to the stories in this book - it's definitely worth digging into.

In a nutshell: I highly recommend this one - it's just a beautiful story. Four stars.
