
3.0 out of 5 stars Why isn't Ron Howard working on this movie?, November 20, 2013
By jonathan briggs - See all my reviews
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
In August 1974, Philippe Petit walked out on a tightrope stretched across the gulf between the twin towers of the World Trade Center, still under construction. Back in the days before 24-hour cable "news" channels, that's the kind of item that would have capped the networks' nightly news broadcasts. I can picture my dad watching and shaking his head and muttering at the screen, "Jackass." And that's a valid reaction. Petit is a jackass. Not only that, he's a French jackass. But sometimes, novelist Colum McCann argues, the world needs a jackass. In "Let the Great World Spin," 2009's National Book Award winner, Petit plays holy fool in the lives of a handful of people -- a support group for mothers mourning sons lost in Vietnam, a pair of Scott-n-Zelda-wannabe artists, an aspiring photographer, a judge hoping to handle Petit's arraignment, a whore or two and even a gang of California hackers on the ARPANET(!). They all derive some kind of personal meaning from "le coup" pulled off by Petit that summer.

McCann telegraphs early that he's not afraid to embrace sentimentality: "It is not fashionable anymore, I suppose, to have a regard for one's mother in the way my brother and I had then ... but the truth is we enjoyed each other, all three of us, and never so evidently as those Sundays when the rain fell gray over Dublin Bay and the squalls blew fresh against the windowpane." That's a little gooey, but maybe it just strikes me that way coz of all the Sundays my brother and I used to spend in the cellar ferally fighting over scraps of beef jerky while Ma was in the kitchen upstairs gettin likkered up. Hhhhhh, sorry, I get a little weepy thinking back on those days.

McCann kicks off the story with a serious miscalculation that almost scuttles the novel. The first 70 pages -- a segment titled "All Respects to Heaven, I Like It Here," about a hippie Irish priest and his stable of hookers -- read like a novella written at the beginning of McCann's career, then tucked away in a drawer after multiple rejections, then resurrected and recycled and raggedly grafted on to the front of "Great World." McCann has been a published novelist for more than a decade, yet this piece of writing is rife with rookie blunders, unintentional silliness and borderline-racist caricatures, culminating in a mawkish monologue that goes on unbroken for five or six pages. How did this get a National Book Award? I began to wonder if this was the literary equivalent of "Crash" winning the Oscar (though "Great World" isn't that bad). Aside from a couple of amateurish relapses, the writing does get better after that initial segment, but the book continues to frustrate because every time the story starts to work, McCann has to get cute, dropping ba-dum-bump would-be-witty one-liners such as "Another day, another dolor." How did he get away with "she was a woman who had known the worst of times and best of times"? Or take this passage:

"Oh, the day Joshua first shaved! Oh, the day! Covered himself in foam. So very careful with the razor. Made an avenue through the cheek, but nicked himself on the neck. Tore off a tiny piece of his Daddy's Wall Street Journal. Licked it and pasted it to the wound. The business page clotting his blood. Walked around with the paper on his neck for an hour. He had to wet it to get it off. She had stood at the bathroom door, smiling. My big tall boy, shaving. Long ago, long ago. The simple things come back to us. They rest for a moment by our ribcages then suddenly reach in and twist our hearts a notch backward.

"No newspapers big enough to paste him back together in Saigon."

It's a nicely detailed snapshot scene of a mother remembering her son. Then that last line lands with a thud, jarring you out of the story so you notice the director behind the curtain, trying to draw your attention in a manic tapdance, waving his arms and yelling, "Didja see that? Didja see what I just did there?!!" It's that artificiality and authorial unwillingness to step aside and let the story unfold naturally that hold "Great World" back from success. It's all a little too pat, a little too stage-managed, every story element engineered for maximum dramatic effect. Even the scuzziest aspects of New York seem like set dressing. "That's how it is in the life, word." No. I'm pretty certain that it's not. McCann is manipulative, but he manages to do it without being calculating, which is a skill not unworthy of respect. Dickens made a career of it. Ron Howard is a sappy filmmaker, but I can't help but like him. He's Opie. He's Richie Cunningham. Who the hell else is he gonna be? "Great World" has a lot in common with Howard's movies: There are sassy whores like in "Night Shift." There are feisty oldsters like in "Cocoon." There are colorful Irish immigrants like in "Far and Away." Someone needs to get Ron Howard a copy of this book.

Of course, McCann knows the emotional baggage the World Trade Center carries for most of us (Does anyone else get a twinge in the chest when older movies show the towers in place on New York's skyline?). He includes a photo (undoctored, I assume) of Petit's tightrope walk in which a jet flies overhead, seemingly scant feet away from one of the towers. He wants us to contrast the "artistic crime of the 20th century" to the monstrous crime against humanity that opened the 21st; a moment of sublime silliness juxtaposed with an act of rabid savagery. And in case anyone didn't get that, he appends a lugubrious final chapter set in 2006 that spells it all out explicitly for the slower readers. McCann mourns a country that's become stern and unyielding in its sadness. A scarred nation under draconian liquid bans where right-thinking liberals can't even make innocent jokes in airport checkpoint lines without being hauled off by humorless, snarling TSA thugs for flogging and cavity searches in a dungeon somewhere. But he sees glimmers of hope in a few New Yorkers' acts of kindness and in the Dawning of the Golden Age of Obama (did I miss something?). It's a sermon that's overstated and exaggerated like everything else in this crazily uneven novel. And in case someone still doesn't get the drift, McCann adds an Author's Note at the end to explain it all over again. And just in case there are STILL a couple of dudes scratching their heads in the back row of the special class, McCann stages an interview with his writer buddy Nathan Englander, so Englander can ask him, "So, Colum, what's it all about?" "Why, Nathan, I'm so glad you happened to ask me that..."

Early on in "Great World," McCann states what might as well be the book's moral: "He said he'd rather die with his heart on his sleeve than end up another cynic." I think I'd rather hang out with Dad and shake my head and mutter, "Jackass."