
1 of 2 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 A very successful tightrope walk, December 16, 2009
By 
David MacCallum "David H. MacCallum" (New York City, NY) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Let the Great World Spin has many layers going on within it.

On the top layer, it is a book about New York in one moment in its long, difficult history, the 1970's. This was a time of urban decline for our Big City, rapidly emerging class distinctions, grinding poverty and desperation, and increasing emotional and economic distance between New York's residents. This theme is brillantly laid out in a series of snapshots of the urban situation, each of them perfectly drawn.

In the next layer, one that unfolds relentlessly and almost silently, these strands draw closer together, providing the novel with its momentum and power. We become aware of the randomness of events that draw human lives together. The pieces fit together beautifully: an Irish social worker with a driven sense of the power of religion to change lives, prostitutes, a Park Avenue socialite reaching for a deeper meaning to life, children of privilege who have descended into confusion, and, above it all, a most fantastic tightrope walker.

It is he, the tightrope walker, whose long, langorous walk in the sky above the World Trade Towers, provides the real glue, the most important layer, in the story. This single act of daring and danger transfixed New York, all of its citizens, in one magical moment in those distant 1970's. New York was presented with a phenomenal act of achievement, soaring high above the ground, alone, contemptuous of authority, detached from all the rules of urban life, thrilling in the frightening challenge to normality. This, in a sense, is the story of this novel. Colum McCann does what few novelists in my 60 year history of reading fiction have done: this book speaks louder and louder to us as it proceeds; it provides us with a picture of what really is happening all around us in life as we draw together and apart, as we try so hard to find our way, alone most of the time but in the end very much together.

I had never read anything by Colum McCann but this has to be the first of many others that i shall read.

