
3 of 4 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 National Book Award winner who deserves the award, February 1, 2010
By 
Dave Schwinghammer "Dave Schwinghammer" (Little Falls, Minnesota USA) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Like many modern literary novels, LET THE GREAT WORLD SPIN is stylistically annoying. There are at least a dozen major characters, and they all have their own point of view. Author Colum McCann also conforms to the Cormac McCarthy school of dialogue convention: a dash, rather that quotation marks. It also takes McCann a good two hundred pages to get all of his characters on stage and start making connections.

LTGWS starts with a tight-rope walker taking on the twin towers of the World Trade center in August of 1974. But the twelve characters are only tangentially related to this event. Some of them see it as it's happening. Others hear about it later. The action on the ground starts with an Irish monk named Ciaran Corrigan working with the prostitutes who parole outside the Deegan projects in the Bronx. He's atypical for a monk in that he doesn't preach and he doesn't try convert the prostitutes. He also endures several beatings from the prostitutes' pimps. A mother-daughter pair of prostitutes, Tillie and Jazzlyn Henderson, also carry quite a bit of the action. Gloria, a "church lady" who lives at the Deegan projects, becomes prominent in the story when Jazzlyn is killed in a car accident and Gloria volunteers to take Jazzlyn's children.

An obvious theme of the novel is that we're all connected. Gloria has lost her three sons to Vietnam. She attends weekly meetings where mothers who have lost sons take turns hosting sessions to commiserate. That's where she meets Judge Solomon Soderberg's wife, Clair. He just happens to be the judge who tries the tightrope walker for public endangerment. For me, the scenes with Gloria and Clair and the other grieving mothers were the most compelling. One lives on Park Avenue, the other in the Deegan projects. But the Deegan mother has more compassion in her little finger than the other ladies, who laugh at Claire when she hosts one of the sessions. A close second would be the scenes with Tillie Henderson, the thirty-nine-year-old grandmother prostitute. She is called before Judge Soderberg just before the tightrope walker. She is unintentionally disrespectful; he's tempted to stick her with a contempt of court fine, but notices all the reporters in his courtroom and doesn't want to come off like a jerk. This is the only funny part of the book. The scenes with Tillie in them jump off the page; she's both funny and heart-wrenching.

McCann is also saying something about art. He considers the tightrope walker an artist; he hops, does cartwheels, and runs across the cable, a hundred and ten stories above the street. He also spends a couple of chapters talking about the graffito taggers who work beneath the streets of New York, spray painting the subway walls, and the phone phreakers, who hack into the phone lines near the Twin Towers, trying to find out if the tightrope walker has survived. They are the first computer hackers, and they tie in with Claire's son who was a computer technician serving in Vietnam when he was killed. There are also a couple of real artists among the twelve point of view characters, one of whom leaves his paintings out in the rain, only to see art in what nature has done to a year's worth of work. McCann is having a bit of fun with this character.

One minor complaint. What's with the interview at the end of the book? Do we really need another "literary" author questioning McCann. After a while he begins to sound a lot like Jonathan Franzen, whose "high art" was too good for Oprah. Just put the interview in PUBLISHERS WEEKLY where it belongs. Also, if you're like me, you'll be wondering how Philippe Petit, the original tightrope walker, got that cable to reach across to the other tower. McCann finally tells you, but it takes him almost four hundred pages to do it.
