15 of 15 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 A good read, with some very important caveats, May 4, 2010
By 
B. Hill (Chicago, IL USA) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
I wrote the following email to a friend regarding this book, and realized that it could also serve as a fairly detailed all-purpose review on a site like Amazon. So here it goes ...

I've been meaning to send you a quick message to let you know what I thought of Let the Great World Spin, which I finished a few weeks ago. It's definitely worth a read, but with a number of caveats.

First, I felt like it took quite a while (at least 100 pages) to really get into the book, and even then, the structure of the book (which consists of various interconnecting narratives) results in a rather uneven read. For example, a full chapter in "Book Two" (albeit only eight short pages in length) is devoted to a character that contributes essentially nothing to the novel; those eight pages are almost like a stand-alone short story (and not a great one at that) that the author felt compelled to include in the novel merely to show off his literary skills (see second criticism below). There are a number of additional characters and/or passages in the book that feel similarly tacked on.

Second, while McCann's prose in some instances blew me away with its lyricism / insight / beauty (like: WOW! I would reread passages and just be stunned), at other times, I felt that the writing was just plain pretentious -- like a Harvard English major straining to write a novel that would be taken seriously as literature. I recognize that the line between these two things is not necessarily that well defined (and certainly highly subjective), but at various points in the novel, *whole pages* worth of prose would just get beneath my skin, and I can not recall having a similar reaction to any other novel I have read in the past 10 or so years.

Third, while the novel's "payoff" (or takeaway or theme or message or whatever) is pretty intellectually compelling (it's really a reflection on 9/11, which the author manages to achieve without ever mentioning 9/11, even after the novel transitions to the present in the final "Book"), at the same time, I also felt like the story was simply Crash taking place in NYC in the 1970s, told in a more highbrow literary vein (see my second point) with a *slightly* shifted (and slightly more subtle) thematic focus. And while I was, I admit, a fan of the movie Crash, I also thought it was ludicrously overrated and that most criticisms of it were well deserved; I ultimately feel the same way about Let the Great World Spin.