1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Great ensemble novel - finally, a deserving book prize winner !, June 5, 2010
By 
Reader from Singapore - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Colum McCann's 2009 National Book Award winner "Let The Great World Spin" has restored my faith in the ability of book award committees to pick a truly deserving winner with outstanding literary merit that's also accessible to the reading public. Far too often in recent years, we have had declared winners which have left many readers baffled at the judges' choice.

This ensemble novel of life in New York City in the mid-70s is a gorgeous piece of art and a thing of beauty because of its breathtaking sweep and bold ambition in portraying all of humanity's diversity especially its seamiest side at their most basic level and demonstrating how our response to situations we find ourselves in makes us all unlikely but no less real heroes in survival.

Just as the French funambulist Philippe Petit had left New Yorkers gaping in amazement at his mind blowing feat of traversing the World Trade Centre towers across thin air on a thin piece of wire, why shouldn't we be similarly awed by the more mundane but equally heroic struggles of a motley crew comprising an improbably idealistic liberation theologist, drug addicts and prostitutes on main street below? For haven't each of them been visited by miracles of another sort ? Like the priest in plainclothes finding himself playing Jesus to the down and out and also the love of a woman without guilt or compromise, or a pair of mother and daughter prostitutes who hold their heads up high playing parent figures to their children/grandchildren, or one among a group of commiserating mothers who lost her son in Vietnam but not the capacity to give and receive love?

Not all the stories happening simultaneously are given the full treatment. Some are merely hinted at or partially revealed. Yet each of them is firmly etched in our hearts and minds. That's how strong McCann's characterization is - the computer hackers feeding back on the Frenchman's hair raising feat, the unnamed secret night time photographer of subway graffitis, etc - they are walk on parts but utterly memorable and integral to the whole. I would have liked a little more elaboration of the judge's motivations though. These disparate strands interweave and finally resolve in a denouement that's both heartbreaking and life affirming.

You are unlikely to read anything better this year. This is modern literature at its best. Utterly compelling !