5.0 out of 5 stars
 A spectacle of sorts...a visual romp through 1970s New York where the lives of many come together in unusual ways., May 19, 2010
By 
Ti "Book Chatter" (California) - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Let the Great World Spin is a collection of stories. Did you know that? I did not. However, the stories are told from several different points of view, and although each character has a very distinct voice, the stories eventually collide with one another leaving the reader standing there, wondering who or what comes next.

Something terrible happens, and as the chain of events unfold, we view the same event from different perspectives. Itfs as if the world is spinning in slow motion, and we are forced to look at the bits and pieces that are not normally noticed when time moves at a more normal pace.

Many of these characters are flawed. They are striving for something, and often find themselves on the outside looking in. As they observe the world around them, life as we know it, continues on. As I read this book, I was mesmerized by the authorfs ability to take me in and out of a characterfs head. One story is told from a prostitutefs point of view, and as I was reading her story, I felt what she was feeling, the frustration, the loss, the helplessness. It was a lonely place to be.

I know I havenft said much about the plot, but as you can imagine, when something terrible happens, there is a downward spiral that takes place. As things come crashing to a halt, there is no place to go but up. This book is like that. We take the plunge into despair, visit with these characters awhile, and then wefre given a small glimpse of what lies ahead. To me, the the plot didnft really matter. I was so absorbed the the internal conflict within each character that plot was secondary to me.

I love this book. I appreciate this book. I am in awe of this book.

It has a quiet, understated quality to it that I wasnft expecting. The characters are complex and conflicted and even though some of them may not be the type of people Ifd be friendly with, I could relate to many of them. This is the type of book that you can re-read, and see (and feel) something different each time you pick it up.

I know for some readers, the varying perspective was a source of confusion at times, but once I figured out where the author was going, I had no problem with the different viewpoints.
