1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Walking the tightrope in an earlier troubled New York City... a truly fine book!, April 14, 2010
By 
Linda Linguvic (New York City) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(HALL OF FAME REVIEWER)
    
(TOP 500 REVIEWER)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
This 2009 National Book Award Winner certainly deserves that prize. It's the kind of novel I'm not likely to forget, peopled with the kind of unique characters whose detailed descriptions zing with reality. Central to the story is the newsworthy incident of August 7, 1974,when a daredevil of a man drew the world's attention by walking a tightrope between the towers of the World Trade Center in New York City. This is not a biography of that man however. He is completely fictionalized. Instead, this is the story of a handful of individuals who were effected by this event, some of whose lives were changed forever. It is also the story of New York City and how it was in 1974. I'm a New Yorker myself. I remember how it was back then. And I understand.

Much of the story is set in the slums of the Bronx where we meet two Irish immigrant brothers, both in their twenties. One of the brothers, Corrigan, is a celibate religious fanatic who befriends the prostitutes who ply their trade under the Major Deegan bridge. The other brother observes all this and tries to understand both his brother and the girls of the night whose stories come to light. This is just the bare introduction to the novel though and, after a tragic traffic accident which kills off two of the main characters, the story takes off in unique and surprising ways. We get to meet several mothers from different backgrounds who are all mourning the loss of their sons in Vietnam. We get to contrast life in a Park Avenue luxury apartment compared with life in the Bronx slums. We get to meet a former counter culture woman who has a terrible secret and wants to change her life. We even meet some early computer pioneers who hack into the phone lines near the World Trade Center during that famous tightrope walk. Then there is the judge who must make a decision as to how to sentence the tightrope walker as well as a 38-year old prostitute grandmother of two young babies. Yes, all these characters are there - big or bigger than life and completely developed.

The book is 349 pages and a fast read. It was hard for me to put down. And when I wasn't reading it, I keep thinking about it, feeling I knew each of the characters personally, remembering an earlier troubled New York City, and relishing all the details that the author used in order to tell this story. This is a really fine novel. Reading it is a roller coaster joy. Don't miss it!
