4 of 5 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Worthy of All Its Awards, December 10, 2009
By 
Miami Bob "Resurgent Reading" (Miami, FL United States) - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
Literature portrayed as mosaic is phenomenal, and even seems better when delivering a pretty or happy message that people - each full of human frailties and weaknesses - can be the cause of great endings.

Corrigan (who ignores his first name) encounters a divine calling in grade school to tend the poor. Leaving his native Ireland for America, we learn about his impoverished life in rugged Bronx where he befriends the local street walkers - most particularly Tillie and her daughter Jazzlyn.

From there we learn how people who cause great stress and strife to Corrigan, Tillie and Jazzlyn can become the closest friends to those closest to he and Tillie and Jazzlyn. Even a marriage emanates. And eventually good things come to Jazzlyn's two daughters who become model citizens and leave the streets which imprisoned two previous generations of their maternal family.

McCann may be saying that good people are reared, not born. The mother and grandmother of the innocents are no less good in the core - but being subjected to cruelty or not being as properly reared - they end in the opposite spectrum of their granddaughters or daughters.

Like the movie Crash, we learn the fate for some can cross cultural, economic and other barriers. And, within clouds are silver linings. This book does not preach that good prevails over bad, it just recites how good can come from bad.

In the end, we all must die. And as one old woman cleverly states, ". . . she was tired of everyone wanting to go to heaven, nobody wanting to die." But, when we learn the equality of man in the relative bizarre world of fate, does not the end result also happen with equality - the same for all? I think Colum McCann was implying that streetwalking grandmother or samaritan-adoptive parent who touched the lives of the girls probably will be at the same steps of afterlife to greet the children - if there is an afterlife.

Books like this are fun. The characters are rich and full. Each seems to be someone you could and maybe will discuss at the next dinner date. This book ends up close to your heart. The characters almost seem like acquaintances. That is a great accomplishment by any writer.

