2 of 2 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 a series of interconnected stories, January 4, 2010
By 
Jordan Michel (Dallas, TX USA) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)

I wasn't 100% sure I'd really enjoy this book before I started. It seemed like a book I should read (especially after I saw it appear on a few "Best of 2009" lists), but I wasn't sure it was one I wanted to read. I finally got around to it while I was stuck on a plane with nothing better to do, and it surprised me.

The book is almost like a series of short stories, but the overlapping characters and plot lines pull it together to form a cohesive novel. Two of my all time favorite novels (Cloud Atlas: A Novel and Ghostwritten) use a similar technique, so I couldn't help but compare it to them. When I read those books, I found them very compelling; I always wanted to jump into the next section to see what would happen and how the stories would connect. For some reason, though, this book did not have quite the same affect on me. I enjoyed the book, but I rarely felt a strong pull to pick it up again after setting it down.

Although I didn't find it compelling as my two favorite novels, I did still enjoy reading it. I really liked the way McCann took several simple stories and developed them by connecting them to one another and illuminating multiple perspectives. There were several times when the novel surprised me by returning to another story or character and totally changed my understanding of it by offering a new perspective (while keeping it consistent with the original story).

My biggest criticism is with the final chapter. Most of the novel takes place in 1974, but the last chapter jumps ahead to 2005. I found McCann's portrait of NYC in 1974 fascinating, but his return to the near-present was jarring for me. He seemed determined to include every possible contemporary theme (post 9/11 airport security, Iraq/Afghanistan, carbon footprint, etc.) in order to make his novel relevant. But since he didn't have time to deal with each issue in just one chapter, he just mentioned each briefly and moved on. That being said, I did enjoy the storyline of the final chapter and seeing what had happened to the character(s) included.

Overall, it's definitely a novel that I'd recommend to a friend who enjoys reading. The artful use of multiple perspectives made for very interesting character development that really enhanced the novel.
