2 of 3 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 The World in a Nutshell, March 7, 2010
By 
Paul Frandano (Reston, Va. USA) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
This is a novel that takes in the whole world within the span of a single day in New York City that, like any day in any city, town, or hamlet, is filled with the ordinary and, sometimes, the extraordinary. McCann tells us the title of is book is lifted from Tennyson's "Locksley Hall" - "Not in vain the distance beacons. Forward, forward let us range,/Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change" - in a couplet that points to the the novelist's universal ambitions. Leave it to an Irish storyteller to write so compelling an entry in the Great American Novel sweepstakes...it's pretty much here, and it's not - McCann's characters aren't straight out of GAN central casting, the whores don't have hearts of gold, he seems uninterested in predatory oligarchs. But he is indeed very interested in human predation, in the manner of Lu Xun, for whom "eat people," or "men eat men," is a distillation of human history. Despite this realization, the converse - redemption and "valuing people" - nevertheless happen.

The novel as grand verismo concoction: diverse New Yorkers, living their lives on a sweltering day in August 1974, when an aptly named wire-walker ambled across a 200-pound cable stretched between the twin towers of the World Trade Center. McCann has sacramentalized these ordinary lives that, like most lives, are fraught with circumstance and drama and are thus anything but ordinary. He lifts these stories up in a very secular way, despite the centrality of an extraordinary Irishman - an against-type "whiskey priest" whose humanity nearly overwhelms the book - interweaving the "ordinary" with the day's extraordinary event, raising the mundane to the nearly magical, the routine to the unique, and all against the towering backdrop of New York City. The author does so in palpable recognition that our cities are our universal places, our repositories of culture, history, mythology, dreams...the places where our great narratives are redacted and woven into the national tapestry, the meaning of which we argue endlessly.

The book is still sinking in, working like a time-release capsule, and I've already returned to it to reread passages of particular power or insight. It will almost certainly strike some readers as a narrative mess; it's told mostly in first-person, from numerous points of view, and is very close to a novel in stories. In turns, it's magical, brutal, closely observant, coolly distant, tremendously funny, and to my eyes a startling piece of writing by a young master who slides in and out of diverse characters and dialects as though he's lived his entire life in the native habitats of each...a power British novelist David Mitchell and very few others possess.

I'll conclude where McCann begins, with a quotation from Alexandar Hemon's wonderful The Lazarus Project, which McCann deploys as a promise to the reader: "All the lives we could live, all the people we will never know, never will be, they are everywhere. That is what the world is." It's a promise that, to me at least, Let the Great World Spin fulfills.
