5.0 out of 5 stars
 Visual Parallax, October 14, 2010
By 
Fran Trachtenberg (Washington, DC USA) - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
His stunt stunned the people below. They strained their eyes and craned their necks toward a slim opening of the universe and in the early daylight they saw a tiny speck, a bird-like creature move in the thin air. He walked, danced, stood still, then shuffled again from side to side, first with one foot placed in front of the other, then only on his heels, now on his toes, with one foot in the air, turning around and around, and around again, sitting down, and finally prancing along a pliable wire that stretched across the heavens from south to north, from north to south, strung between the towers of the World Trade Center.

It was on August 7, 1974, a hot day in New York City, the day before Richard Nixon resigned, when he realized he could no longer balance the high-wire act of politics; on that summer day Philippe Petit, the French acrobat supreme, the immigrant itinerant, traversed the towers on a tightrope. He made it look so simple. Those watching thought it was an illusion, done with mirrors, the man held in the air by a helicopter. But he was no Mary Martin or Mary Poppins; Petit was the real McCoy, the genuine article.

On that morning, as they came up the steps of the subway station, got off the bus, picked up their morning coffee and went about their daily routines, real time crowds of Manhattanites witnessed Petit's magic act. People watched from office windows and later generations saw raw footage from home movies, read and listened to news reports, watched PBS's American Experience program, and screened the academy award winner, "Man on Wire."

At first the act stunned and then, almost immediately, thrilled the public, for the audience was pleased to turn its attention away not only from Nixon but also from the grimness and solemnity of the on-going war in Vietnam: better to talk about Petit and dream about becoming a free spirit.

In 2009, Colum McCann's novel, "Let the Great World Spin" won the National Book Award. Its story is about a collection of New Yorkers who are held together in literature, and perhaps in life, by the thin wire that supported Petit's audacious feat. Why one of us joyfully ends up in an exhilarated mid-air collision with the fates of the wind, hovering between the buildings of the WTC, and another of us struggles to maintain a modicum of dignity while toiling in the darkness underneath the Major Deegan Expressway, is just one of McCann's searches.

His story weaves the tales of apparently random folks who, like most New Yorkers, are two-degrees of separation from each other, and whose lives rub shoulders and shake hands with the devil, with saviors, with friends and foes, with the law and with each other in manners that illustrates how a swift act of fate can - in a mere nanosecond - upset the equilibrium, turn life upside down, right it again, or not.

McCann's book is as spellbinding as Petit's space walk. So many of the novel's characters wish to be liberated - freed from their toil, depression, from indignity, restraint and from over zealousness. He doesn't advocate, he doesn't wallow; he spins a story with a light touch about heavy subjects.

So many of us are wound up tight, snuggled into the skin of convention, of happenstance, of years and years of acts of social behavior that place us right smack in the middle of the road to protocol and tradition. How to unwind?

When I was in college, I found the decorum of first dates dreary. I had little patience for the so often asked questions, "What's your major; where did you grow up; and what's next - grad school or work? How humdrum. I crafted a brief reply to take me away from all that. "I'm an Hungarian (not true) tightrope walker (not true), whose family once ran a circus (not true) and I practiced each day by carrying a broom handle (not true) across a clothes line that ran between my parents' bedroom window and the tree in my back-yard. The clothesline was real. But as I reached out in the afternoon to pull in the sun-dried laundry, I didn't have Petit's imagination to traverse the towers of the world, nor McCann's poetry to spin the world on its axis. I knew I wanted to leave what I perceived to be the confines of my youth. Brooklyn was the fourth largest city in the world but its restraints and constraints were binding in many directions.

I drove into Manhattan every Saturday morning during the construction of the World Trade Center and watched the skyline of lower Manhattan become transformed by two towers of glass and steel that rose out of the ground like giant beanstalks. When photographed, the towers often seemed to be planted on a slope, refracted by a visual parallax that tilted them inward, as if their top floors would kiss in heaven when they ultimately reached the vanishing point.

It was the history of photography that captured my attention in college. And a camera's picture that gave McCann a motif, a literary device. Read, "Let the Great World Spin," and let the context of the picture take your breadth away. Going back in time makes you fast forward at warp speed to an unforgettable day.
