
5.0 out of 5 stars Sublime picture of a moment, brilliant in audio, December 22, 2012
By Ryan "Gen-Xer, software engineer, and lifelon... (Somerville, MA, United States) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin (Audible Audio Edition)
If you've never seen the documentary, Man on a Wire, which tells the story of Philippe Petit's illicit tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center in 1974, I recommend it highly. Let the Great World Spin isn't strictly about that event, but uses it as a lit-fic centerpiece for a set of interconnected stories and vignettes that span a cross-section of New York City at that moment in time.

Like Petit, each protagonist seems to be in the middle of his or her own balancing act, putting on a performance for the public while dealing with a private drama. There's a young Irish monk, whose ministry to the streetwalkers of the Bronx and a God he's determined to find in their lives falls somewhere between folly and true devotion. There's a group of mothers meeting for mutual support after losing their sons in Vietnam, the universality of grief contending with their vast class differences. There's a prostitute approaching forty, who has made many bad decisions, yet still has a riveting account to give of herself and her life. There's a weary city judge, caught between the opposing goals of dispensing justice and not clogging an overburdened court system. And there's Petit himself, whose walk is not a crass stunt, but appears to be a profound act of artistic purity.

In my opinion, Colum McCann does a stunning job of putting the reader inside the minds of his diverse characters. There's a real poetry and melancholy beauty to the writing, and I felt that I knew each of these people intimately in a few pages, just from the voice and a collection of small details. The talented voice actors who performed the audiobook deserve a lot of credit as well, giving McCann's prose authentic texture and tone. Not every piece works equally well -- a sequence featuring early computer hackers comes across as a little fanciful and forced -- but, mostly, I was impressed with the amount of time the author must have put into research.

Some readers feel that there isn't enough "story", but, to me, there didn't need to be. The vignettes themselves aren't complex, but as the book moves forward, they begin to build on one another, exploring what different perceptions people can have of the same events, and each other. I enjoy books where I get one thing out of a sequence on first read, but a different impression in light of later chapters, and this was one. Together, the individual tales imbue the space between them with an ineffable landscape of grief and redemption, time and memory.

Without a doubt, this was one of finest audiobooks I've listened to this year. It was a pleasure to soak in the voices, the sensory details, and that aching sense of a lost moment suspended in time. This is what literary fiction is about.