0 of 2 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 A book that can only be described in superlatives., June 19, 2011
By Mile D. Moore (Alexandria, VA USA) 
VINE VOICE
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin Paperback
Colum McCann's "Let the Great World Spin" just won the prestigious and lucrative IMPAC Prize, after already winning the National Book Award, and it's hard to imagine a more deserving book. "Let the Great World Spin" is a novel set at the time of Philippe Petit's real-life tightrope walk between the twin towers of the World Trade Center in August 1974, with the walk itself as its centerpiece. In structure, it is a series of interconnected short stories, with a recurring cast of wildly disparate characters who nevertheless share connections and destinies, sometimes in ways they cannot even guess. Its structure is similar to that of "Trainspotting," "Three Junes," or "The Imperfectionists;" if you disliked those books, you probably won't like "Let the Great World Spin." But if you did like them, "Let the Great World Spin" is the best of them all, combining an elegant and varied prose style, superb dialogue, and characters of almost Dickensian vividness.

Throughout the novel lies McCann's unspoken but aching question: are our lives controlled by blind fate, by divine providence, or by a combination of forces? McCann never tips his hand as to his own beliefs, and his characters range from the deep, mystical faith of Corrigan, a young Irish monk who ministers to the hookers and low-lifes of the Bronx, to the secular outlook of Gloria, who mourns the son she lost in Vietnam. But McCann leaves readers with an overwhelming sense of our shared humanity, and with the simple, pristine goodness of showing love and concern for each other. He is aided in this goal by his remarkable ability to enter the minds of his protagonists, such as his description of Petit's thoughts as he begins his walk: "The core reason for it all was beauty. Walking was a divine delight. Everything was rewritten when he was up in the air. New things were possible with the human form. It went beyond equilibrium. He felt for a moment uncreated. Another kind of awake."