
3 of 4 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Tales of the city, January 31, 2010
By 
A. T. A. Oliveira "A. T. A. Oliveira" (Sao Paulo-- Brazil) - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
In "Let the world spin", Colum McCann says in his Author's notes that the title of the novel comes from Alfred, Lord Tennyson poem "Locksley Hall", that was heavily influenced by "Mu'allaqt", or the "Suspended Poems" - Arabic poems written in the sixth century. At some point, the poems ask if `is there any hope that this desolation can bring me solace?'. That is exactly the main point in this beautiful, polyphonic novel: the solace that comes from desolation.

Set in the 1970's the narrative echoes the past into the present. It hardly mentions the events of 9/11, but, at the same time, that tragedy is always present throughout the story shaping how past turns into present. One of the main events of "Let the great world spin" is about French Philippe Petite and his walk between the twin towers of World Trade Center in 1974. This action has been the center of books and movies - specially a documentary called "Man on Wire" - but here is used in a fictional way. Many characters and their actions are related to this event in a loose way.

McCann - who happens to be Irish - asks how connected lives change one another. But what seems to be more interesting is the way that characters aren't aware of the thread that ties them to one another. Everything is connected. The various stories in this novels at some point converge. What doesn't mean that the narratives are plastered to a pattern - the connection may occur in the most subtle way - and, many times, only the reader is aware of it. A car crash is at the center of the collision - real and metaphorical ones. When two worlds collide both of them are about to change their route.

Routes will be drastically modified in the course of "Let the great world spin". What McCann shows is that the world spins no matter how we care or not about it. Like the course of lives that are always moving forward adding, however, the past. There are many narratives in this novel that prove so. Most of them begins somehow with Petite's walk. Like a spider web the author slowly develops a net of relationships, cause and effects.

The character development is strong - especially when it comes to emotional resonance. Some parts are told in first person, other ones in third person - these different techniques of narrative allow the reader to be closer to some characters than others. If fells like some of them are more open to show their inner emotions - therefore tell their own stories.

McCann, a very gifted writer, has developed a powerful elegiac novel about the world we live, the causes and consequences - most of them impossible to be understood - that affect our lives. In another reading, this is the best novel about the New York post 9/11. It is as powerful as sad as one expects it to be. In the end, the redemption, if it ever comes, it sure is stronger and more beautiful that it was supposed to be, because we have read about so many tales of the city - of this one or any other one.
