
3.0 out of 5 stars did not make it to the other side, April 7, 2013
By Lewis M. Weinstein (Key West, FL) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
It is beautifully structured and written but oh, so depressing. All of the characters are leading a life that is surely precariously balanced on a high wire of their own making.

But ... The author challenged himself with a literary walk on the high wire, and in my view did not make it to the other side. The story is not told in a linear fashion. The time frame jumps forward and backward as often as the point-of-view character changes. As other GR readers have said, it is more a series of somewhat linked short stories than it is a novel.

Almost every new scene was confusing and, to me, irritating. Who is this unnamed person? Where does he/she fit? Is this event happening before or after the last time we met this character? Even if this confusion was resolved within a page or two, it nevertheless unbalanced the flow of my reading. By the time that flow was reestablished, the scene was over and another scene created a new disruption.

The lack of a single protagonist to carry the emotion of the story made the unsettling disruptions worse. Every time I began to feel something, the story line and character which had evoked those feelings disappeared and the emotion dissipated. I could never really settle in to enjoy the story. Was this the author's intent?

A clue to this intent is found in the interview with the author at the end of the book. "Did you envision the whole plot of this book in advance?" he is asked. McCann answers, "I just got happily lost over and over again! It's a fairly intricate maze, but I never mapped it out, it just kept unfolding for me. There were times I didn't feel like I was writing it at all. I was being blown around by twelve different voices."

The result of this haphazard approach was unsatisfying for me. Some confusion is fine, but I don't like a book totally structured that way. Had the high wire guy prepared in that manner, he would never have gotten to the top of the towers, and would surely have fallen off if he had.

My conclusion: many pieces of "Let The Great World Spin" were well researched and beautifully told, but for me the whole was less than its parts. It's hard to decide when there are such disparate elements, but I end up with 3*.