
4.0 out of 5 stars
 an elegant, intricate novel, May 20, 2010
By 
lisadee - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
let the great world spin, by colum mccann, is an intricate, elegant, novel with inter-locking/over-lapping storylines (in some ways, it reminded me of alice mattison's novel in short stories called women yelling, men giving money : intersecting stories, and, to a lesser extent olive kitteridge, by elizabeth strout). the novel takes place in new york city in august 1974, on the day funambulist philippe petit walked across a tightrope between the world trade center towers. although petit's walk is in some sense central to the novel, his character is not. the book follows several characters (about a dozen), most of whom have some connection to each other, whether they are aware of it or not.

the story begins in ireland, told by the brother, ciaran, of a man called by his last name, corrigan. very early on ciaran says this of his brother: `corrigan sat on the wall, banging his heels and looking over the flat strand to the water. i should have known even then that thse sea was written in him, that there would be some sort of leaving.' (pg 12). young corrigan spends his time with `the drunks.' ciaran says, `the down-and-outs needed him, or at least wanted him--he was, to them,a mad, impossible angel.' (pg 17). corrigan's calling takes him to the bronx, where he becomes a bit of `a mad, impossible angel' to the prostitutes who walk the streets outside his apartment. he lets them use his bathroom, buys them coffee. when they go to jail, he tries to help get them out. he also drives a van for a nursing home, taking some of the residents on day trips. there is a young nurse who works at the home, adelita, with whom he has a complicated relationship. on ciaran's first meeting with her, he describes the scene this way: `something fierce shot in the air between them. he loosened around her, his body more pliable. he put his hand on the small of her back...' (pg 44)

we meet mothers: adelita has two children; tillie, a prostitute and her daughter, jazzlyn, who is also a prostitute. jazzlyn has two very young daughters of her own. claire, a wealthy woman living on park avenue, lost her son, joshua--a brilliant computer whiz--to a bomb in vietnam cafe; and gloria, a neighbor of corrigan, whose three sons were also killed in vietnam.

there are also fathers: solomon and pino. solomon, a judge, is joshua's father. he wonders `why he bought the toy soldiers all those years ago. he fretted over the fact that he'd made joshua learn "the star-spangled banner" on the piano. he wondered, if, when he taught the boy to play chess, he had somehow instilled a battle mentality? ... there must have been somewhere that he'd hard-wired the boy.' (pg 263). pino, whom we meet years after the events of 1974 (post-katrina, even) is in new york city to buy his son a chess set...

there are other characters, an artist who is involved in a terrible car accident, a young, aspiring photographer, and a young hacker from California who helps route phone calls all over to make free phone calls and ends up getting to speak to someone on her way to work the morning of the walk across the tightrope. he gets the woman to describe the scene for him.

one of the things i found so interesting was the way the connections were made--when a revelation is made, it happens smoothly (organically to the story). a few times i could see things coming, but not always, and in those cases i probably should have, but oh well.

it is impossible, or was impossible for me, to read this without thinking about 9/11 and the towers that are no longer there. so much has changed in the world since the time period of this novel--as well as since the towers fell. far-off wars still rage on, prostitutes still walk the streets, people still take their eyes off the road at the wrong moment--and also, some unlucky children still get a break, the garbage gets collected, many things, for many people are better.

this was an interesting, well-written novel. i highly recommend it.

themes: drug addiction, prostitution (no graphic sex), suicide, alcohol use, Vietnam war, grief, poverty, religion
