2 of 3 people found the following review helpful
3.0 out of 5 stars
 Glad I read this book, January 10, 2010
By 
Susan "Online Shopper" (Glendale, Ohio, United States) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
I bought this book after Amazon named it the best book of 2009. I found this a very difficult book to get through -- especially the first two-thirds of it. Having said that, I'm glad I persevered.

So many people making so many tragic choices! It wasn't pleasant reading, and it was pretty frustrating and depressing for long stretches. There were a few bright spots though. Let me just talk about a few of the characters that I found most compelling, without giving too much away.

Corrigan is a priest, but his faith in God is twisted and pretty toxic. He never seems to understand God's extravagant love, grace, and mercy. I was pulling for him to realize how much God loves him, but I don't think he got there. There is a lot about Corrigan to admire though. He took care of the lowest of the low -- strung out prostitutes -- but it felt more like they were dragging him down, rather than him lifting them up. Still, there is good food for thought in Corrigan's story. What does faith in action look like?

Gloria is an educated, African American woman, who lost three sons in Vietnam. There is a lot to respect and love about Gloria. She takes in two young girls after their mother dies in a car accident. The little girls, it seemed, were doomed to repeat the mistakes of their prostitute mother and grandmother. But Gloria rescues them from all of that. We get the satisfaction of seeing that she really did change the trajectory those girls were on. She saved them. In a tangential storyline, Gloria befriends a woman from a Park Avenue penthouse who was deeply depressed by the loss of her own son in Vietnam. In a way, Gloria saves her too. It begs the question, does anybody in your life need to be rescued today?

In the final one-third of the book, I think we see evidence of the power of love and kindness. It's the end that makes it a worthwhile read.
