1.0 out of 5 stars If this is the seventh, how bad is the first?, February 28, 2014
By Mister Bonely (USA) - See all my reviews
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
I received this book as a sort of gift and went to an event where the author spoke about himself and read bits of his novel. I met people who enjoyed it and at the end of the event, I heard many people saying things like, "He's so interesting" and "He's done so much."

After reading his book and both seeing and hearing him speak in person, I wasn't impressed, with either the book or the man. Most of the people at the event were young and, in my opinion, too easily influenced. Talk of travel and roaming with the homeless of the subway, and suddenly you're the most fascinating person in the room. While I admit McCann's experiences sound interesting, the man himself seemed to me a proud, tiresome bore.

In fact, I almost didn't write a review because I didn't think it was worth the time. I don't mean to offend anyone, though I probably am. I had little feeling for him or his book, aside from the initial discontent and contempt--contempt, because I couldn't believe that anyone could be satisfied having their name on this book.

The beginning, especially the first set of characters, I found the most interesting (in fact, I even liked it somewhat)--I sometimes wonder if maybe that vignette in particular struck me the most because it was written with a certain...care. At the event, the author did mention (as he does in an interview that's at the end of the book) that Corrigan was his favorite character, and that, in a sense, he felt closest to him. (Corrigan is one of two brothers that the first narrative centers around.)Corrigan, of course, is, like the author, from Ireland and resides in New York for the rest of his time in the novel. After the first story, though, I felt my interest in the book shrink. I dreaded picking it up (but I had to for the event).

Perhaps the ideas weren't bad, but, as some reviewers seem to have noted, it doesn't quite feel real. A story doesn't have to be realistic for you to feel something for the characters, but I didn't feel much at all. They were all made out of paper, not flesh and bone. It was too forced, like I'd imagine bad sex to be. (Appologies for the crudeness.) I didn't finish this book, because I have other books to read and other things to do, and quite honestly it wasn't worth the time I had already spent on it.

If I hadn't gotten this for free, I'd have felt jilted after reading it; though, I'm fairly sure I wouldn't have bought it in the first place.

If you're not sure whether or not you want to buy it, go to a book store (if you can) and read a bit (keeping in mind that the first story just might be a bit more appealing than all the others) and skim through. You might be saving yourself some money and irritation.