
3.0 out of 5 stars Too much spinning for me, June 21, 2013
By Digital Rights (Newtown/Fairfield CT) - See all my reviews
Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin (Kindle Edition)
Kaleidoscopes generally don't work for me. The writer needs to over invest in characters that come and go. He then must come up with some ingenious way for them to intersect, weaving a story that we both want to read and that brings the disparate group of characters in touch with each other. And then he has to find some resolution that leaves the reader somewhat satisfied but knowing you can possibly tie up all the loose ends created by so many open ended storylines.

He then needs the reader to invest in those characters only to see them fade as the next one takes the stage.

It's frankly too ambitious.

And in the the 21st century do we really need another story where the lives of street walking hookers intersect with Park Avenue's elite, Irish immigrants, pimps and judges, nurses, artists and doctors and everyone has a distinctive accent with their cultural rough edges from the new yawkah to those foreigners? Frankly "Bonfire of the Vanities" or any New Yorker article or novel by Tom Wolfe, George Plimpton, John Dos Passos or Jay McInerney or any next 10 great novelists of the last century have captured much of what McCann has tried to write here.

In the end the McCann tries too hard to create great characters that should fill a whole book but only hold us for a chapter or 2. Unfortunately that's near impossible to invest in them or buy into each's connection to the next person. So then you just suspend belief and take faith in the Hail Mary that's been thrown out there to try and save the story and bring it home.

The contradiction to all that is that I did like the characters but there were too many. I felt a bit shortchanged in how they quickly wrapped up. What was a story that was largely concrete ended with a bit too much metaphor and symbolism with a character, Jazzlyn, a woman we barely got to know is left to give it all meaning.

Oh and the part about the tightrope walker? Interesting but hardly the glue or inspiration to bring all this together.