1 of 2 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 A Literary Masterpiece with a Soul, December 7, 2009
By 
Ismail Elshareef "ielshareef" (Los Angeles, CA United States) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
This book is already a classic! It's not only beautifully and lyrically written, but its characters with all their achingly palpable pain, heartbreaking innocence and infectious optimism are impeccably drawn.

Colum McCann writes an epic tale of New York City on the 7th of August in 1974. Anchored in the quicksand of corruption and crime and Vietnam, the City looks up to the sky and observes Philippe Petit walk between the World Trade Centers on a tightrope, as free as the sinking City will never be.

The event is the lynchpin that holds the book together as it tells the story of various interconnected characters: two Irish brothers living in the Bronx and the Black prostitutes they call "friends," a Park Avenue judge and his wife that just lost their only son to war, a group of women mourning their lost sons, four young engineers in Palo Alto hacking fledgling networks, two young artists high on cocaine and delusional grandeur. They live, love, hate, cry, laugh, sell, buy, learn, spit, swear, pray, smile, shoot up, give up, take off, get off, sweat and die as the man above them--an angel, really--live out their true desire to be free, completely unaware they even existed down below; down in the gutter.

True to the City they roam, every character in this book has a strong opinion of the man high above them. Some admire him and some resent him. Some don't care enough one way or the other because shenanigans like that were banal and commonplace at best.

One of the characters is Corrigan--an Irish Jesuit Priest who moved from Dublin to New York City in the pursuit of God. He's not looking for any God, he wants "a fully believable God, one you could find in the grime of the everyday." What he ends up finding instead is social calamity and destitution. A city rotting from the inside out.

Corrigan is an innocent dreamer with pure ideals and impossible optimism. Ravaged by the City's embrace, he never once let up. "The comfort he got from the hard, cold truth-the filth, the war, the poverty-was that life could be capable of small beauties."

Claire--another incredible character in the book--is actively mourning the death of her only son in Vietnam when she hears about the man up high in sky and thinks he's "so flagrant with his body. Making it cheap." She resents the man for inviting death at a time she was trying to understand it but couldn't; understand its infinite forms, "death by drowning, death by snakebite ... death by memory loss, death by claymore ... death by paper cuts, death by whoreknife, death by poker game ... death by authority, death by isolation, death by genocide, death by Kennedy ... death by signature, death by silence ... death by performance."

I will stop and let you discover this special book on your own. Although the story takes place in NYC, it is deeply and commonly American. The early 1970s was uniquely transitional in American history. That's when America lost its innocence, and NYC exemplified that in every way.

Having said that, this is also a very NYC story. Colum's descriptions brought the bankrupt city of the '70s to life and captured its enduring spirit in a way I never realized possible.

Can't do this book justice talking about it, so I'm going to stop now. Just read it. You simply have to!

