1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 Great Stories, December 2, 2009
By 
Richard Pittman (Toronto, ON Canada) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
I finally got around to this year's National Book Award Winner. For me, the NBA is hit and miss where I've loved some choices (Shadow Country), very much disliked some (The News From Paraguay) and felt neutral on others (The Echo Maker).

I liked Let The Great World Spin quite a lot. This is despite the fact that I didn't like the structure of the novel very much. The structure was very much like the movies "Crash" or "Babel" or "Traffic". There are a series of stories of normally unrelated people who intersect over a period of time with an event linking these stories. I find the format a bit gimmicky.

The binding event in Let The Great World Spin is a man who walks on a tightrope between the World Trade Center Towers in 1974. It is another extraordinary event in New York. The stories are of New Yorkers from various walks of life and backgrounds who either see or hear about the tightrope walker on that day. The stories are not just limited to that day but all seem to come back to it.

There are quite a few stories told in the first person from different perspectives. The first and probably most significant is of the Corrigan brothers from Ireland. The key character is John Corrigan (Every one calls him by his last name, even his brother Ciaran). Corrigan is someone searching for meaning in life. He basically sacrifices his own comfort to help others. He lives in the South Bronx and lets the local hookers use the washroom in his apartment. He brings them coffee and is human to them. He also helps out at the seniors home and is generally a force for good in the world. He is unperturbed by pimps beating him up and all other forms of harsh circumstances. He's a very unique and compelling character.

A second main thread tells of Claire a rich wife of a judge who lives in a Park Avenue Penthouse. Her son has died in Viet Nam and she has bonded with several other mothers who have also lost sons. She strikes up a particularly deepm realtionship with another woman who has lost three sons in Viet Nam. Their friendship endures despite their very different backgrounds (Affluent White on Park Avenue vs non-affluent African American woman living in the SOuth Bronx.)

There are other story threads but generally they relate back to and cross with the first two stories.

Each story is very thoughtful and deals with a range of human emotions and circumstances. The story is a very good slice of New York life in 1974. Both the characters, the city and the time are the stars of the novel.

I enjoyed this a great deal and recommend it. I do agree with other reviewers that it is a little slow at first but gets steadily better.

I'll definitely be watching for McCanns future work.
