
0 of 2 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 A rare and touching novel..., February 26, 2010
By 
Phlogiston (West Hartford, CT USA) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
This book is the very rare sort of novel that touches one so very deeply that one is not quite certain which world is more real, the world of the book or one's own world. Indeed, the line between the two worlds becomes a bit blurred.

Those of us who are old enough might remember the incident when a tightrope walker strung a wire between the two buildings of the World Trade Center and walked out onto it. This book takes place on that day, but instead of focusing on the man on the wire, who is so far above the bustling streets of the city, it focuses on those who are down in the dirt of New York, as it were. It is a book of everyman characters who are so extremely sympathetic, compelling and likable that, when conflicts arise, it is sometimes difficult to determine for whom we are supposed to be cheering. Perhaps the author does not want us to cheer. Perhaps he only wants to give us a window into their hearts, to see what drives them, what challenges them and to understand their successes and downfalls. This he does with vivid colors.

The book moves from one seemingly unconnected situation to another, but the author always manages to interweave the lives of the people in the story, such as to give the reader an amazing feeling for this incredible organism called New York. The lives of the people in the city and in the novel are connected, almost as if with tightropes, sending vibrations back and forth down the wire, while working to maintain one's balance, or, at times, giving up and allowing oneself to fall.

The tightrope walker may be at the apex of it all, but he is almost like the top of a pendulum. He is steady, angelic, above it all and around him there is so much more movement. All around him there is chaos, but out of this chaos emerges a kind of equilibrium.

This is one of the finest novels I have ever read. It is worth every second that one invests into it and is worth even a second or third read. For those who love New York, the 1970s, historical fiction or just a tremendous story, this one is a must. Get a copy.