
4.0 out of 5 stars Experiencing Beauty in the Ashes, February 3, 2013
By M. Sanchez (Boston) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)   
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
This book was in many ways a study of beauty in the ashes - beauty that can be found in the most desolate of places, including 1970s New York City! And yet - the contrast might be especially stark there, but isn't the entire world a study in these contrasts if you look closely enough?

It is also about how we are all linked together, in part, by an appreciation of beauty and its pursuit. It was a stunningly wonderful idea to tie all the stories together with the tightrope walker, who united all New Yorkers in an extraordinary moment of awe and hush. And yet - years later, we also were all united again in a terrifying moment of anguish looking up at those same towers. United in the recognition of beauty, united in the experience of ashes and pain. In that respect, this novel is a marvelous work of poetry.

Evidence from a few characters:
"What Corrigan wanted was a fully believable God, one you could find in the grime of the everyday. The comfort he got from the hard, cold truth--the filth, the war, the poverty--was that life could be capable of small beauties."

Of paintings destroyed in the rain: "But then I started looking through them. And they were beautiful and ruined."

Why the walker walked: "The core reason for it all was beauty. Walking was a divine delight. Everything was rewritten when he was up in the air. New things were possible with the human form. It went beyond equilibrium. He felt for a moment uncreated. Another kind of awake."

A judge assessing the city: "Every now and then the city shook its soul out. It assailed you with an image, or a day, or a crime, or a terror, or a beauty so difficult to wrap your mind around that you had to shake your head in disbelief."

On why a young lady kept an photo of the tightrope walk: "The photo was taken on the same day her mother died--it was one of the reasons she was attracted to it in the first place: the sheer fact that such beauty had occurred at the same time."

And there's more where that came from...a study of real beauty in the real world.

Why not 5 stars? Largely because for me the pace was a bit slow...but if you stick with it, it yields a harvest. I found myself continuing to consider its themes for days after. A real treasure.