2 of 3 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Common Threads, December 13, 2009
By 
Mark Stevens (Denver) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Nothing is entirely by itself.

As a theme, that has "trite potential" written all over it. In the hands of Colum McCann, the theme is treated masterfully and with care.

The observation, that "nothing is entirely by itself," comes from Gloria as she's leaving a gathering of women who have lost sons in Vietnam. "Each thing as strange as the last, and connected," she concludes.

Those connections are bound together by Philippe Petit's mind-boggling tightrope walk between the World Trade Centers in 1974. That's the common thread--or wire--that loops through these stories. The loop is loose at first, then grows tighter and cinches up neatly, after the book has shot its last story-arrow up and over the War in Iraq, at the end. Too neatly? This is probably a matter of how sweet you like your endings. I vote yes. It feels entirely real and it leaves you with a ray of hope that human connections do make a difference.

McCann enters the worlds of each of his main characters with ease. We are inside Petit's head (though Petit is unnamed) and inside the head of a Jesuit priest, a prostitute, a judge, an artist, and a Park Ave. woman of means. I enjoyed all the writing and the shift in voice and tone from character to character, but Claire Soderberg is particularly well drawn. Her grief is palpable. She's one of several mothers who have bonded over the loss of their sons in Vietnam and, when we meet her for the first time, is about to host the group at her relatively fancy apartment for the first time.

"How to greet? Handshake? Air kiss? Smile? The first time around they had hugged good-bye, all of them, in Staten Island, at the doorstep, with the taxi beeping, her eyes streaked with tears, arms around one another, all of us happy, at Marcia's house, when Janet pointed to a yellow balloon caught in the treetops: Oh, let's meet again soon! And Gloria had squeezed her arm. They had touched cheeks."

MCann's characters pinball off each other and we begin to see how their lives overlap too, how the small decisions in one setting lead to the consequences in the next. I found McCann's descriptions detailed, rich and inviting. The dialogue was just as sharp.

"Let The Great World Spin" is symphony and engages a wide range of players, all relying on each other to produce one big sound. I couldn't agree more with the awards heading McCann's way. This is one memorable book and I would love to see somebody pull this off on film.

