
3.0 out of 5 stars A work of art, difficult, imperfect, but worth the read, June 9, 2013
By Katherine M Karns - See all my reviews
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
This is a dense, thick work of poetry-prose that layers on lives and experiences. The author dives first into the lives of interconnected characters whose choices combined with chance throw them into a hell of personal tragedy or allow them to take small steps to redemption. A common thread to all the action is the tightrope walker, an actual person, and his dizzying feat of walking between the twin towers, an actual event.

The first narrator tells of his brother Corrigan who has vowed to be celibate and poor, who has chosen a life of helping the untouchable elements - the sick, aged, hookers and heroin addicts. The reader is as frustrated as the narrator with Corrigan's choices. As Corrigan makes a choice that promises to free him, by loving a woman (the nurse at the nursing home), his fate catches up to him. We also see from the hooker, Tillie's, perspective the sheer frustration of the choices she has made and her guilt at bringing her own daughter into the life of hooking and heroin. Is there a way out for these people? The author leads us through several other lives, including a Judge Soderberg, who sees cases of both the hookers and the tightrope walker in one day, and Claire, his affluent wife, who befriends Gloria, the woman from the projects who stepped in to care for the Tillie's grandchildren - their common bond being the loss of sons in Vietnam but their continuing friendship a flickering light of hope for the future.

McCann's ambitious effort to get into the heads of these diverse characters is an attempt to get at the human condition. The characterization flows naturally for some characters (such as Corrigan's brother) but is less natural and more superficial for those who are probably further from McCann's experience, such as the hooker and the judge. Reading their stories I want to laugh or cry, but I still don't know what really makes them tick. (And maybe that's the point.)

Overall, despite some flaws, this novel is an interesting work of art that I'm glad I read.