0 of 1 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 A good spin but not a great spin, January 31, 2011
By 
C. B Collins Jr. (Atlanta, GA United States) - See all my reviews
(TOP 1000 REVIEWER)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
There are certainly a great number of reviewers who thought very highly of this book. There are also some reviewers who were bored to death. Whereas I didn't think this was a fantastic book, I also didn't think it was terrible. It gets 4 stars in my opinion, good but not great. The book is a bit too long, just a bit too overwritten, almost to the point of being tedious in some of the chapters.
There are many themes and relationships which tie the book together but the primary events are when Philippe Petit walked a tightrope between the twin towers of the World Trade Center in 1974 and when a tragic car wreck changes the lives of every character in the story. The high-wore event is seen by thousands of people and their reactions to the event as well as to each other make up much of the book. However, it is actually the car wreck and the relationships of all kinds that pull the book together emotionally. It seems to follow the philosophy of nine degrees of separation between everyone on earth.
The Roman Catholic Irish monk, Corrigan, is a primary character, which seems like a modern day St. Francis. Yet he falls in love with a Guatemalan widow and political refugee with children. His brother Ciaran is his voice of reality. Tillie and Jazzlyn are a mother and daughter prostitute team and it is Tillie's relentless verbal hostility to the world that was the most tedious aspect of the book. Claire and Solomon are a wealthy couple who have lost a son in Vietnam. Gloria, a black woman, has lost several sons but her acts of redemption bring the story to closure.
Colum McCann is a good storyteller and the interconnected chapters, each almost like a short story, filled in all the details and put all the puzzle pieces together in the end so that the book offers closure. Closure is good for some readers. For me, I like a bit more depth of character.