

3 of 5 people found the following review helpful
1.0 out of 5 stars
 Thrilled with his own blather, January 16, 2012
By Delving Eye (New England, USA) 
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin Paperback
I got the distinct impression that author McCann was trying to pull off what Michael Cunningham succeeded in pulling off with his tour de force, "The Hours": three stories revolving around one (in that case, Virginia Woolf's masterpiece, "Mrs. Dalloway.")

Where Cunningham succeeded brilliantly, McCann simply falls flat. His choice of centerpiece character, Philip Petit, who tightrope-walked between the Twin Towers in August 1974, seems strained and odd because so many of his references suggest to the reader that he is in fact hinting at 9/11. It's a strange balancing act because he tries too hard to make the former as powerful as the latter, and it doesn't work.

The biggest problem is the tedious inner dialogue of each character, none of whom are tied together until the end -- by which time many have been more or less forgotten by the reader because there was never enough to hold them together in the first place. However, if the reader can hold on long enough, there is a modicum of closure in the denouement.

Ironically, the most satisfying part of the book is, in fact, not part of the novel at all. It is the first page and half of the Reader's Guide, "Walking an Inch Off the Ground," where McCann recalls briefly the story of his father-in-law making it out of the North Tower on 9/11 and wading home through the dust and mayhem to McCann's apartment uptown.

When I read this portion, I admit I felt a little smug, having guessed that 9/11 was indeed the inspiration for this novel. In fact, those few sentences are riveting, proof that McCann doesn't need to impress us with how many words he can type. It's too bad he didn't stick with his initial impulse and develop a story around that Twin Towers event instead of drumming up a peculiar, run-on and decidedly self-conscious series of "voices" that simply bore with their own dull theatrics.
