
7 of 8 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 Looking Up from Below, January 28, 2010
By 
Roger Brunyate "reader/writer/musician" (Baltimore, MD) - See all my reviews
(VINE VOICE)
    
(TOP 500 REVIEWER)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Magnificently written, though slow to get started, this relaxed wide-ranging novel paints a number of vignettes of people in New York City on or just after August 7, 1974, when for three quarters of an hour Philippe Petit walked on a tightrope between the two towers of the World Trade Center. Most of the book concerns people on the edges of society -- an Irish monk who has come to work among prostitutes in the Bronx, a pair of struggling artists, a support group of mothers who have lost their sons in Vietnam -- though one of these is the wife of a judge living in a Park Avenue penthouse. There are also some wonderful side panels, such as a group of computer programmers in California cold-calling pay phones in NYC to obtain a first-hand account from people on the ground.

One word of warning. This is not a book to start (as unfortunately I did) if you do not have time on your hands. The early chapters are almost novella length, and apparently unconnected. Though totally absorbing in themselves, they do not yet provide much forward momentum. It is only halfway through, as the chapters get shorter and the connections between characters begin to emerge, that the richness of this multi-voiced tale becomes fully apparent, and the novel accelerates towards a quiet wrap-up of the 1974 events and a gentle epilogue 32 years later. In all, McCann shows an impressive stylistic range, held together by a deep non-judgmental humanity, making him a Tolstoy for our times.

I see that I am not alone in thinking of Tom Wolfe's THE BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES (1984), another New York panoply that brings together people from different walks of life; I am not sure if the expressway accident which plays a significant role in both books was intended as an oblique homage. But McCann's novel is less melodramatic, less tightly plotted, and not at all concerned with flaunting an insider status. Its relative looseness is indeed its strength, finding a quiet wisdom in everyday epiphanies. I am reminded too of the wonderful way in which Michael Cunningham wove almost-unconnected stories together in THE HOURS (1998), especially in the mood of its New York sections, and even more of what Virginia Woolf did for London in MRS DALLOWAY (1925).

Like Woolf, McCann also opens his book on a crisp sunlit morning, with a moment of wonder literally in the air. He uses it to focus and refract the lives of relatively ordinary people down below, and reveal their individuality that makes tham anything but ordinary. And although this is never explicitly mentioned, the book brackets the memory of another bright morning by the twin towers, when ordinary New Yorkers were once again shown in extraordinary light.
