1 of 1 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 solid read, March 10, 2011
By lidsney
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin Paperback

This novel by Colum McCann exemplifies the true spirit of New York City. It is a well-written and brilliant portrait of New York. As McCann travels through various personalities, he manages to tie them together by seemingly mundane actions. The raw emotions of New Yorkers, from a Park Avenue judge to prostitutes in the Bronx, capture the true chaotic essence of the city. Through his use of multiple characters, settings, and narration styles, McCann unveils different aspects of New York in every chapter. Each story and perspective happens in what feels like an eerie parallel universe with intertwining events which hold the stories together at the edges. "It had never occurred to me before but everything in New York is built upon another thing, nothing is entirely by itself, each thing is as strange as the last, and connected" (pg. 306). McCann successfully shows me a complex and intimately connected New York City landscape.
I appreciate McCann's efforts to apply a "six degrees of separation" aspect to his novel, yet it is occasionally overbearing. At the core of the novel, a tightrope walker walks between the World Trade Center towers and he inevitably affects each person in the world below him. Judge Soloman, who tries the walker in court, doesn't think about the act in the same manner as his wife Claire, or as the walker himself does. To Soloman, the verdict regarding the tightrope walker is a huge deal. His appreciation for the walker doesn't end at the successful court day it handed to him; he also acknowledges the art that the tightrope walker managed to present. "He had made himself into a statue, but a perfect New York one, a temporary one, up in the air, high above the city. A statue that had no regard for the past.... So brash. So glassy. So forward-looking" (pg. 248). However, to an isolated couple who live in a cabin, a fleeting newspaper article is the most they see of the act.
Although the various perspectives make the novel stronger, some snippets of seemingly meaningless stories are included as well. Hackers from California, who "view" the tightrope walker through calls to pay phones in New York, merely shows the chaos of the city without their actually being there. I didn't fully grasp why that story is strewn into the mix, and it took a little while to fully recognize the voice of that particular chapter. Occasionally, it took a few pages of each new chapter to identify the narrator and the storyline behind voice, which in turn led to me missing some of the key thoughts--I ended up skimming certain details which I didn't know were crucial until I uncovered this voice of the chapter. This, however, also made me reread parts of chapters, which aided my overall comprehension and appreciation of the novel.
Another aspect of this novel that I didn't like included the fact that I resonated with some of the storylines more than others. The novel discusses two brothers' childhoods in Ireland, a monk Corrigan and his more sensible brother Ciaran, and McCann practically "raises" them throughout the beginning of the novel. The brothers end up in the Bronx and we travel through their lives alongside them. I felt as I had more desire to read and understand Corrigan and Ciaran than other characters because McCann discusses both their childhood and adulthood, and also because Ciaran contributes to a significant amount of narration--something that the other characters are missing. However, this storyline fades as the novel continues, which I disliked.
This novel's depth is truly outstanding. It incorporates a multitude of views on New York, from the Twins Towers representing "...the sky, the night, the colors: progress, beauty, capitalism" (pg. 248) to the evils of the city, where "Hooking was born in [Tillie]. That's no exaggeration" (pg. 199). Although the connections among portraits are sometimes obscure and only apparent to the reader, I believe that McCann successfully reveals demographic diversity at its best, and at its worst.
