3 of 5 people found the following review helpful
3.0 out of 5 stars
 Some parts work, some don't, November 29, 2009
By 
Richard A. Jenkins "Richard A. Jenkins" (Washington, DC USA) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
As others have noted, this is an overlapping set of stories given some unity by a tightrope walk in New York City. The actual heart of the book is a set of stories that involve an Irish monk living in the projects in the Bronx. Involved with him are his brother (newly arrived from Ireland), a mother-daughter team of streetwalkers, a woman who becomes the love of his life, and assorted pimps, sex workers, and clients at a nursing home. Other characters include members of a support group for parents of Vietnam War casualties, a judge, and the tightrope walker. People old enough to have some memory of 1974 will recognize many pop culture cliches in the book: the well-intentioned liberal judge worn down by bureaucracy and criminal recidivism, a prostitution culture that owes a little too much to Blaxploitation films, and the kind of unconventional true believer clergy who briefly flourished in the Vatican II era. The monk is the most fully drawn character in the book, with failings and heart. The other characters tend toward the one-dimensional. In some places, McCann seems to race through character development as in the case with woman who adopts the children of the younger streetwalker. The interior lives of the characters are largely told to us rather than naturally unfolding. This kind of thing works well enough in a short story, but seems rather didactic and unconvincing in a novel. McCann seems to have researched many details like the location of Cleveland's 1970s downtown prostitution stroll, but his portraits of Park Avenue and the South Bronx seem like movie set pieces rather than real places. The opening chapter (which set-up the tightrope walk) and the overlapping narratives seem tailor made for an ensemble independent film and perhaps that medium could give the life to this story that McCann's book lacks. The National Book Award panel seems to reward unusual narrative styles; unfortunately, in this case, they've rewarded a clumsy attempt at novel length short story fiction. Despite its unevenness, I did manage to finish the book, but it wasn't as satisfying as many far less ambitious and gimmick-ridden novels.
