1 of 2 people found the following review helpful
4.0 out of 5 stars
 Complete Bliss, March 10, 2011
By 
HG Beast - See all my reviews

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
Let the Great World Spin, by Colum McCann, was one of the most enjoyable books that I have read in recent memory. This quick-paced book, that chronicles the lives of twelve distinct and unique characters, is perfect for all ages and for people from all walks of life, because the author explores extremely different types of people and their distinct relationships with 1970's New York.
Stylistically, McCann utilizes a different narrator for each chapter. At first, I found this to be confusing and altogether unpleasant, but as the book progressed I found that it complemented and added to the themes of the story. Irish immigrants, New York City hookers, mourning upper-class mothers, judges and hackers seem to have nothing in common, yet McCann has the ability to link them together, create similarities and provide opportunities to understand the nuances of life in NYC. We understand how each individual and each class come together to contribute to society. The link among all people in the story is Philippe Petit's 1974 tight rope walk across the twin towers. McCann proves that seemingly polar and opposite people have similarities. Shared experiences help bind people and bring them together. It was extremely interesting to see how this one event could be witnessed and experienced by such a unique group of people and from such varying perspectives. Petit's tremendous feat, walking from one twin tower to the other on a wire provides an opportunity for the characters to learn and reflect on themselves. Additionally, it provides hope and a feeling that anything can be accomplished, even in the bleak and seemingly hopeless lives of our protagonists.
I also really enjoyed McCann's ability to develop setting and introduce characters. No matter the type of place or the traits of a character, McCann vividly and aptly depicts the scene. Most notably, at least for me, is his introduction of the lowly tenement district of New York. For the characters that live in the projects, nothing is easy. McCann's depiction of the setting truly sets us up for the feeling of hopelessness and despair of the projects, "On one side was a row of high-rise tenements behind a chain-link fence. Parts of the fence were topped with razor wire. On the other, the expressway: the light-streak of cars zipping above. Below, by the underpass, a long line of women. Cars and trucks were pulling into the shadows. The women struck poses." (24) McCann's description is clear, concise, and easily understood. Even for someone who has never visited NYC, the scene can easily be visualized and understood. His juxtaposition of what is seen (the highway) and what is hidden (the prostitutes) is interesting and well-thought out.
A final trait of McCann's writing that stood out to me was his ability to play with and take on any voice necessary. The narrative voice could be an Irish `monk', a hooker or an ordinary woman, "The days I recall finest were about as ordinary as they come--playing hopscotch on the slab of broken concrete, following my brothers through the cornfields, trailing my schoolbag through the dust. My older brothers and I read a lot of books back then--a bookmobile came around our street once every few months, staying fifteen minutes." (285) This writing is just so beautiful--simple, yet descriptive. Voice is the device that McCann explores most frequently. He expertly changes his voice and tone as he changes character.
All in all, I give this book a resounding A+. Everything about the writing, plot and style made me fall in love with the story and its characters. I couldn't put it down.