
3 of 4 people found the following review helpful
5.0 out of 5 stars
 A Pink Parasol in the Bronx, December 1, 2009
By 
M. Feldman (Maine, USA) - See all my reviews
(TOP 1000 REVIEWER)
    
(VINE VOICE)
    
(REAL NAME)
   

Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)
This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Hardcover)
When you enjoy a novel so much that you're hunkered down under the covers with a reading light, trying not to wake your spouse while you finish the book, it's hard the next morning to think analytically about WHY you liked it. So-so books are easier to dissect. I recalled that the author of "Let the Great World Spin," Colum McCann, commented in an interview that the car crash depicted in the novel, which impacts so many lives, is patterned, in its small way, on the destruction of the World Trade Center. McCann said he was drawn to the way the fallen towers drew together people who, until linked by suffering, might otherwise have had nothing at all in common. His statement helped me understand the genesis of the novel, but not why it is so good. However, I'll try.

To me, it is McCann's use of detail, often the same detail repeated or changed slightly, that makes his characters so compelling. Jazzlyn, the teenaged prostitute who works in the shadows cast by the Major Deegan Expressway, is defined by the neon swimsuit she wears. When she is picked up in a police raid, it flashes beneath the coat her protector, Corrigan, has thrown over her. In court, Jazzlyn is inarticulate; her few words are inappropriate and reveal little about her. To the judge and to the onlookers, she is one more degraded woman in a weary procession. To the reader, however, the bathing suit suggests everything we know about her--her beauty, her youth, her recklessness. Her mother, Tillie, carries a pink parasol. It is by turns, coquettish, ironic (in the way it evokes the high class courtesan Tillie isn't), and, finally useless. It has no function as protection or even shade; Tillie can't protect herself, her daughter, or, in the end, her daughter's children. The Trade Center funambulist (tightrope walker) based on Philippe Petit is defined by his wire: the composition of it, the laying of it, the defects that can render it fatal, the precision of its tension. And Corrigan, the figure at the center of it all, speaks through his body: there is the thinness of his frame, visible through the ragged collarless black shirt that hints at his religious vows, then the blotches on his body that signal disease, and, finally, the image of those thin ribs pressed up against the steering wheel. All of the other characters in this polyphonic novel, in which characters appear and reappear, sometimes quite unpredictably, express more with their gestures, their clothing, their living rooms, all the details of their lives, than they ever do with words.

The premise of "Let the Great World Spin" is that people are bound to others in ways they can't always predict or even see. This is the motif created by the interwoven depictions of the high wire act, itself a blend of faith, crazy daring, and freedom. Sometimes in the novel fragile connections lead to a lessening of loneliness, sometimes they don't. I don't know if the novel's premise is even true, but reading this book and its surprising ending, so far (and yet not so far at all) from its beginning pages, made me believe for a time that a wire could stretch between a drug-riddled housing project in the Bronx and an elegant apartment on Park Avenue.
