10 of 12 people found the following review helpful
2.0 out of 5 stars
 Let the Bad Novel Spin, March 27, 2010
By 
Daniel Lewis (Benicia, CA United States) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin: A Novel (Paperback)
I am utterly bemused by the positive reviews this book has received. Cleary those who give this book more than one or two stars are seeing and experiencing the book through a different colored prism than I am. Only one novel was more completely unsatisfying than Let the Great World Spin, and that was Rohinton Mistry's A Fine Balance - but at least Mistry has some writing chops, has the ability to generate empathy and sympathy for his characters, talents of which Colum McCann is deeply bereft.

McCann utterly failed to fully flesh out his two central characters, Corrigan and Jazzlyn; he failed to create characters with depth and resonance. My favorite writers draw characters and create worlds for them to inhabit that stir my soul and imagination; they create people I can identify with, characters with motives I can understand even when I'm rooting against them. They create human beings who even when imperfect, deeply flawed, or evil, draw me into their psyches and then motivate me to understand them. McCann never achieves this with Corrigan and Jazzlyn. I never felt a sense of character intimacy with McCann's characters. I was glad to say goodbye to them. I Never sympathized with them. Compare McCann to Khaled Hosseini, who masterfully demonstrates what McCann doesn't in A Thousand Splendid Suns. When Mariam is forced to marry Rasheed, the older shoe cobbler from Kabul - a character as vicious a villain as Dicken's Fagin - I not only felt Mariam's pain, I simultaneously understood and sympathized with Rasheed. And while I could never forgive Rasheed's reprehensible behavior, I could appreciate the causal roots of his behavior, understand what drove him. I could identify with this despicable human being.

Compare McCann to Richard Russo. Russo is a master at creating characters who get inside you, a master at teasing humor from sadness (read Bridge of Sighs), a master at creating character intimacy and introducing you to people who live on in your imagination long after you've turned the last page of his books (read The Risk Pool). We can identify with Russo's characters because they so often evoke our own dashed hopes and dreams, highlight our own flaws and imperfections, and in so many ways reflect the longing, expectations, hopes, disappointments and failures of the collective American soul.

Let the Great World Spin is NOT a book I would ever recommend. I book I recently read and do recommend is This is Where I Leave You by Jonathan Tropper. A very different book, but one that becomes very enjoyable company.
