4.0 out of 5 stars
 Dizzying prose - a rich, complex read, 26 Feb 2012
By 
Victoria Field "fal" (Cornwall UK) - See all my reviews
(REAL NAME)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin (Paperback)
This was an amazing book in many ways. At its heart, I think it is a meditation on goodness set against the backdrop of New York. The frame for all the stories is a tight rope walker going between the twin towers. The stories themselves stand independently, then later weave together. Throughout the book, characters have small and large moral dilemmas which they either rise to or fail to do so.

The setting of 1974 seems slightly arbitrary except that it clearly isn't now. The future role of computers is a theme so perhaps it was chosen as the dawn of our cyber-age. It also seems more innocent and the idea of the two Irish brothers going to New York is much more exciting than it would be in our time of hyper-mobility. The character of the priest Corrigan is marvellously drawn and challenges so many ideas of what a life is for. The lives of the sex-workers are fully realised and profoundly sad. Some of the characters, as in life, appear and disappear and it's somehow surprising to see which ones get picked up again in the loose-end tying towards the end of the novel.

The writing is simply superb - it sings from the page and is original and exciting at a sentence level. It also captures the voices of the characters superbly, whether first or third person. I would have given the novel five stars if it weren't just a bit too long. The quick-fire dialogue of the computer hackers, I just skipped, and by the time we had Gloria's back story, I was ready to look forward.

Some of the reviewers here have criticised the artifice of the novel. I think this is part of its beauty, the slight arbitrariness, the unlikely conjunctions of people and events.

I'm still pondering the Tennyson connection - the title and the chapter headings are taken from the poem Locksley Hall - if it comes to me, I'll post again!

I loved the author's note in which he sums up the point of a novel about sad and difficult lives - `Is there any hope that this desolation can bring me solace' - throughout this novel, we find the solace of different kinds of goodness, beauty and connection. I recommend it highly.

