
4.0 out of 5 stars
 New York, connected, 1 Feb 2012
By 
Steve Keen "therealus" (Herts, UK) - See all my reviews
(TOP 1000 REVIEWER)
   

This review is from: Let the Great World Spin (Paperback)
High above New York City, early morning one day in the 1970s, a wire strung between the twin towers of the World Trade Centre supports a death-defying tightrope walker. Down below, in the streets, offices and apartments of the city and beyond, onlookers and others are connected through a network of events, happenstance and mishap.

Two Irish brothers with widely diverse motivations; a mother-and-daughter pair of hookers; a couple of strung out artists; a bevy of California-based proto-geeks; a support group of mothers of the Vietnam dead; a refugee from Guatemala; a judge. We get into heads. We learn secrets. Innermost fears.

Some is told in the first person, some in the third, the focus shifting from direct to indirect reportage.

Mostly the tone is sombre. The only real light moments involve the funambulist himself; thrilling to the danger; anticipating the rush from the altitude, the audience. The event is based upon the real-life stunt carried out by Philippe Petit on 7 August 1974, a performance which left all witnesses awestruck by its audacity: one remarked that he was more like a dancer than a walker, especially when he allowed both feet at times to leave the wire. McCann changes some of the facts, though, so it's not actually Petit himself out on the wire.

Meanwhile, Gloria, one of the bereaved mothers provides a less than positive assessment of the level of solidarity displayed by some of her companions towards their hostess for the day, their snide comments, their gracelessness, their inability to overcome their envy over her lifestyle and her Park Avenue apartment.

Whilst the "dancer" provides the central event, Gloria's is maybe the pivotal tale. She provides the key to McCann's thesis: "everything in New York is built upon another thing, nothing is entirely by itself, each thing as strange as the last, and connected." Her backstory is one of strength, of triumph over adversity. The granddaughter of slaves, Syracuse graduate, twice divorced. She herself has lost three sons to Vietnam. She attempts to walk home from Park to the Bronx projects, but her feet swell and bleed, and then she is mugged at knifepoint for her handbag, empty save for photos of her dead boys. But at the end of the day she achieves some kind of redemption.

In the aftermath there comes the life-assuring coda, which connects then with now, World Trade Centre with Ground Zero. A reminder that at one time there was nothing sinister in seeing a picture of a plane flying in proximity to the towers. (It also provides a very poignant warning for anyone tempted to displays of levity in the company of US airport security staff.) Unfortunately the coda ultimately stalls, losing the momentum of the rest of the novel.

A shame, because despite its sombre tone, it's mostly worth a read.
